BULIMUS.

PLATE VII.

Species 30. (Fig. a, b, c, and d. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CINCINNUS. Bul. testá ovato-pyramidalí, tenui, subhyaliná, anfractibus senis subrotundatis, columellá subintortá, labro simplici, vix reflexo; pallidè rosaceá, albidá aut virescente, epidermide fusca basin versus sparsim maculatá.

The curl Bulimus. Shell ovately pyramidal, thin, rather transparent, whorls six in number, somewhat rounded, columella slightly twisted, lip simple, scarcely reflected; pale pink, whitish or greenish, sparingly bespotted towards the base with dark brown epidermis.
Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 98.
Hab. Islands of Temple and Burias, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

A very delicate and extremely variable species, the epidermis of which is of so tenacious a character that it is rare to meet with specimens having any portion adhering. The colour of some is purple, of others light pink or pale green, and the shell has not unfrequently a pink columella.

Species 31. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CALYPSO. Bul. testá subpyramidalí-ovatá, diaphaná, anfractibus senis, convexis; columellá peculiariter contortá et truncatá, labro tenui, vix reflexo; albidá, fasciis pallidè olivaceo-luteis, præcipue in anfractu ultimo, cingulatá; columellá apice et peritreme roseo-purpureis.

The Calypso Bulimus. Shell somewhat pyramidally ovate, diaphanous, whorls six in number, convex; columella peculiarly twisted and truncated, lip thin, but little reflected; whitish, encircled with pale olive yellow bands, especially round the last whorl, columella apex and peritreme rose-purple.
Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840. p. 182.
Hab. Tanhay, Isle of Negros, Philippines (in the woods); Cuming.

Only two specimens of this very delicate diaphanous species were collected; it is encircled by numerous faint olive-yellow bands, somewhat crowded towards the base, and the columella, peritreme, and first two whorls of the shell are of a deep rose-purple; there is, moreover, a dark purplish stripe around the columella.

It is a peculiarity in this species that the banded pattern does not reside in the epidermis, as in most of its congeners, but in the shell, where it may be observed winding round the interior.

Species 32. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS VIRENS. Bul. testá pyramidali-ovatá, laeviusculá, nitidá, anfractibus septenis, subplano-convexis, ultimo infernè obscurè angulato; columellá vix intortá, labro subreflexo; alba, epidermide tenui virescente basin versus indutá.

The pale green Bulimus. Shell pyramidally ovate, rather smooth, shining, whorls seven in number, rather flatly convex, the last obscurely angled round the lower part; columella slightly twisted, lip but little reflected; white, covered with a thin epidermis which is of a pale green colour towards the base.
Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 153.
Hab. Island of Burias, Philippines (on leaves of trees); Cuming.

I cannot trace the resemblance which Dr. Pfeiffer notices between this shell and B. carinatus, Lea; the figure of that species in the Transactions of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, represents a shell belonging rather to that division of the genus which is characterised by a hydrophanous epidermis.

Species 33. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS HINDSII. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, anfractibus quinis convexis, columellá subintortá, labro reflexo; alba, anfractibus fasciá castaneá supra et infra cingulatis, epidermide tenui luteá, parte circa columellam et peritreme purpureo-fuscis

Hind's Bulimus. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls convex, columella slightly twisted, lip reflected; white, whorls encircled above and below with a chesnut band, epidermis thin, yellow, peritreme and part around the columella purple-brown.
Pfeiffer, MSS. Mus. Cuming.
Hab. Tayabas, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

The general aspect of this shell is very simple, but it is not a species of common occurrence.