BULIMUS.
PLATE VIII.

Species 36. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CAMELEOPARDALIS. Bul. testá elongato-oblongâ, spirá valdè productâ, anfractibus septenis, plano-convexis, ultimo obscurè carinato, columellâ arcuatâ, aperturâ parviusculâ; castaneo-flavicante, epidermide virgas longitudinales latiusculas conspicuas, vix undatas, pratermittente; peritremate purpureo-nigricante.

THE CAMELEOPARD BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, spire much produced, whorls seven in number, flatly convex, the last obscurely keeled, columella arched, aperture rather small; chesnut yellow, epidermis leaving rather broad conspicuous longitudinal stripes, scarcely waved, peritreme purple-black.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 157.
Hab. Sibonga, Island of Zebu, Philippines (on the leaves of bushes); Cuming.

Distinguished by its elongated dactylose form, and by the bold longitudinally striped pattern of the epidermis.

Species 37. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS BOHOLENSIS. Bul. testá subelongato-oblongâ, anfractibus senis, leviter convexis, columellâ vix intortâ; pallidè castaneâ, apicem versus flavicante, epidermide maculas sparsas strigasque acutè undatas, sapè angustas, numerosas, pratermittente, peritremate purpureo-nigricante.

THE BOHOL BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately oblong, whorls six in number, slightly convex, columella a little twisted; pale chesnut, yellowish towards the apex, epidermis leaving sharply zig-zag streaks, sometimes numerous and narrow, with scattered spots, peritreme purple-black.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 158.
Hab. Island of Bohol, Philippines (on leaves of trees); Cuming.

In general aspect this species approximates closely to the preceding; it is, however, less elongated in form, and the epidermal pattern is of an oblique zig-zag character, which is sometimes developed with peculiar neatness.

Species 38. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CALISTA. Bul. testá elongato-ovatâ, anfractibus septenis, convexis, columellâ subintortâ; stramineâ, epidermide tenuiculâ, in strigis longitudinalibus undatis, peritremate purpureo-nigricante, apice rufo-castaneo.

THE CALISTA BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, whorls seven in number, convex, columella slightly twisted; straw-colour, epidermis rather thin, in waved longitudinal streaks, peritreme purple-black, apex reddish chesnut.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 152.
Hab. Tanhay, Island of Negros, Philippines (on the leaves of bushes); Cuming.

The B. Calista is of a delicate straw-colour, with a very light epidermis; in form it approaches the B. Boholensis, and the colouring of the peritreme and columella is nearly the same.

Species 39. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS DACTYLUS. Bul. testá pyramidali-oblongâ, basin versus peculiariter effusâ; anfractibus septenis, convexis, ultimo obscurè carinato; columellâ subintortâ; castaneo-fuscescente, epidermide longitudinaliter nebulatim undatâ, lineam spiralem infernè pratermittente, peritremate castaneo-nigricante.

THE FINGER BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, peculiarly effused towards the base; whorls seven in number, convex, the last obscurely keeled; columella slightly twisted; light chesnut-brown, epidermis longitudinally nebulously waved, leaving a spiral linear mark round the lower part, peritreme chesnut-black.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842.
Hab. Mountains of Tayabas, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

This species, of which Mr. Cuming collected but few specimens, may be recognised by its acuminated growth and effused development of the aperture. It appears to come nearer the B. carinatus of Lea in these respects, than any that has been attributed to that species.

Species 40. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS DIANA. Bul. testá elongato-oblongâ, anfractibus septenis, convexis, columellâ subintortâ; stramineâ, apicem versus eburneâ, epidermide tenui longitudinaliter nebulatâ et strigatâ, peritremate eburneâ.