BULIMUS.
PLATE X.
Species 47. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS APLOMORPHUS. Bul. testá conico-ovatá, anfractibus senis, convexis, ultimo supernè obscurè angulato, apertura parciusculá, labro fortiter reflexo; castaneo-lutescente, zonis rufo-fuscis duabus cingulatá, epidermide tenuissimá, peritremate albo.
THE SIMPLE-FORM BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, whorls six in number, convex, last whorl obscurely angled at the lower part, aperture rather small, lip strongly reflected; chesnut-yellow, encircled with two red-brown zones, epidermis very slight, peritreme white.
JONAS, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842. p. 189.
Hab. Philippine Islands.
Allied to A. Guimarasensis but of another form, differing principally in being more conical and in having a second thin white hydrophanous epidermis, which, however, in the specimen figured, is much rubbed away. It was not collected by Mr. Cuming.
Fig. 19 c and d. (Mus. Cuming).
The shells here represented are without doubt varieties of the B. pictor described at Plate IV. although so much smaller in size, and not characterized by the zigzag shadowed flames depicted in the specimens there figured: in these the outer hydrophanous epidermis is either arranged in slightly waved streaks, or it covers the shell leaving streaked spaces. Where the varieties chiefly simulate is in the livid purple-black colouring of the peritreme.
Species 48. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS UBER. Bul. testá subabbreviato-ovatá, tenuiculá, diaphaná, anfractibus quaternis, ventricosis, longitudinaliter confertim regulariter striatis, ultimo spira magnitudinem valde superante; pellucido-albá, epidermide tenui lutescente indutá.
THE NIPPLE BULIMUS. Shell somewhat shortly ovate, rather thin, diaphanous, whorls four in number, ventricose, longitudinally closely regularly striated, last whorl far exceeding the size of the spire; transparent white, covered by a thin yellowish epidermis.
PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842. p. 153.
Hab. Island of Guimaras, Philippines, (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.
The spire of this shell is of a peculiarly swollen mamillary structure, whilst the shell is composed of no more than four whorls; it is of a semitransparent diaphanous texture with only a very simple shining epidermis.
Species 49. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS ÆGLE. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, vix pyramidali, anfractibus quinis, convexis, obliquè creberrimè striatis, ultimo subeffuso, inferne obscurè obtuso-carinato; fulvá, basi indistinctè fasciatá, suturis subtilissimè albilineatis, peritremate conspicuè castaneo-fusco.
THE ÆGLE BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, scarcely pyramidal, whorls five in number, convex, obliquely very closely striated, last whorl somewhat effused, obscurely obtusely angled round the lower part; fulvous, indistinctly banded at the base, sutures marked with a very fine white line, peritreme conspicuously stained with chesnut-brown.
BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840. p. 181.
Hab. Casan, Province of Misamis, Island of Mindanao, Philippines (in a dense forest on the leaves of trees); Cuming.
Peculiar in form but of a dull fulvous hue, not distinguished by any ornamental epidermis, nor of an aspect at all complimentary to the fair nymph to whom it is dedicated.
Species 50. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS LEUCOPHÆUS. Bul. testá subpyramidali-ovatá, crassiusculá, plus minus ventricosâ, anfractibus senis, convexis, columellâ rectâ, apertura subcontractâ, labro reflexo; castaneo-fuscâ, epidermide leucophaâ, sèpe albiflammatâ, infernè fasciâ angustâ vel lineâ nigricante cingulatâ, interdum zonâ, infra suturas, albidâ, hic illic peculiariter abrasâ, columellâ et apertura fauce cærulescente-albis, peritremate castaneo-nigricante marginato.
THE RUSSET-GREY BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally ovate, rather thick, more or less ventricose, whorls six in number, convex, columella straight, aperture slightly contracted, lip reflected; chesnut-brown, covered with a russet-grey epidermis, often