Species 81. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS GRATELOUPI. Bul. testá elongato-ovatá, tenui, pellucidá, anfractibus sex ad septem, lævibus, nitidis, aut concentricè subtilissimè striatis, columellá reflexá, labro simplici, arcuato, supernè sinuato; corneo-stramineá.

Grateloup's Bulimus. Shell elongately ovate, thin, pellucid, whorls six to seven in number, smooth, shining, or concentrically very finely striated, columella reflected, lip simple, curved, sinuated at the upper part; horny straw-colour.

Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 42.
Hab. Islands of Luzon and Panay, Philippines (at the roots of trees); Cuming.

A transparent horny shell very finely marked throughout with concentric striae of growth, resulting from the curved structure of the lip.

Species 82. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS COCHLEADES. Bul. testá elongatá, anfractibus novem, latiusculis, lævibus, convexis, aperturâ parvâ, supernè contractá, labro simplici; albidá.

The spoon-like Bulimus. Shell elongated, whorls nine in number, rather broad, smooth, convex, aperture small, slightly contracted at the upper part, lip simple; whitish.

Hab. Island of Cuyo, Philippines; Cuming.

This singular species, it may be observed, is represented of the natural size, whilst the rest of the plate are all more or less magnified. Mr. Cuming only collected this solitary specimen, which is quite unapproached by any other. It is of extremely simple structure.

Species 83. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS LICHENORUM. Bul. testá oblongo-turritá, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, subrotundatis, lævibus aut tenuistriatis, columellá reflexá, aperturâ parviusculá, labro simplici; cærulescente-albá, strigis perpaucis cinereis obliquis, apice nigricante.

The lichen Bulimus. Shell oblong-turreted, whorls seven in number, somewhat rounded, smooth or finely striated, columella reflected, aperture rather small, lip simple; bluish-white, with a few oblique ashy streaks, apex blackish.

D'Orbigny, Voyage dans l'Amér. mérid. Moll. p. 264. pl. 41. f. 9 to 11.
Hab. Cobija (on lichens); D'Orbigny. Chilon, Bolivia (under dead trunks of Cacti); Bridges.

It is not without some doubt that I venture to refer this shell to the above named species of D'Orbigny; yet it accords sufficiently with his description and figure.

Species 84. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS SCABIOSUS. Bul. testá elongato-oblongá, anfractibus septem, convexis, peculiariter interruptè sulcatis et striatis, columellá reflexá, aperturâ parvâ, labro simplici; albidá, rufo-fuscescente strigatâ et marmoratâ, apicem versus nigricante.

The scurvy Bulimus. Shell elongately oblong, whorls seven in number, convex, peculiarly grooved and striated in an interrupted manner, columella reflected, aperture small, lip simple; whitish, streaked and marked with light reddish-brown, blackish towards the apex.

Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 74.
Hab. Cobija, Peru (under stones); Cuming.

Mainly distinguished by a roughened peculiarity of sculpture which appears to have suggested the above name to Mr. Sowerby, though no mention is made of it in his description.

Species 85. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS PUPIFORMIS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-elongatá, anfractibus decem, convexis, lævibus aut tenuistriatis, ad suturas minutè crenulatis, columellá reflexá, aperturâ parvâ, labro simplici, subdilatato; cinereo-albidd, apicem versus nigricante.

The Pupa-shaped Bulimus. Shell cylindrically elongated, whorls ten in number, convex, smooth or finely striated, minutely crenulated at the sutures, columella reflected, aperture small, lip simple, slightly dilated; ashy white, blackish towards the apex.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.
Hab. Huasco, Chili (under stones in shady places); Cuming.

It is important to observe the minute sutural crenulations which characterize this species, as Mr. Broderip appears to have overlooked them.