BULIMUS.

PLATE XVIII.

Species 103. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NITIDUS. Bul. testá pyramidali-ovatâ, tenui, subpellucidâ, anfractibus sex, convexis, longitudinaleiter fortiter elevato-striatis, apertura parviusculâ, labro simplici; opalescente-lacteâ, strigis carulescente-fuscis longitudinibus ornatâ, apice nigricante.

THE SHINING BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally ovate, thin, somewhat transparent, whorls six in number, convex, longitudinally strongly elevately striated, aperture rather small, lip simple; opalescent cream-colour, ornamented with longitudinal bluish-brown streaks, apex blackish.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, f. 31.
Ejusdem var. lactea.
Bulimus cactivorus, Broderip.
Hab. Columbia and Peru; Cuming.

Of a delicate opalescent cream-colour with a black apex, and longitudinally streaked with blue-brown, a neat finely corded appearance being imparted to the shell in consequence of the striae which cross the dark streaks remaining cream-colour. The B. cactivorus of Broderip is merely a variety having no streaks.

Species 104. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS VARIANS. Bul. testá elongatâ, tenui, umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, convexis, longitudinaleiter hic illic rudè striatis, apertura parvâ, labro simplici, albâ aut rubellâ, castaneo sèpissimè aut zonulatâ aut longitudinaleiter variegatâ et strigatâ.

THE VARIABLE BULIMUS. Shell elongated, thin, umbilicated, whorls seven in number, convex, longitudinally here and there rudely striated, aperture small, lip simple; white or reddish, most frequently zoned or longitudinally streaked and variegated with chesnut.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 106.
Ejusdem varietates.
B. pulchellus and rubellus.
Hab. On the mountains about Truxillo, Peru; Cuming.

The present is a remarkable instance of the variation of colour and pattern in one species in the same locality. The variety Fig. a, (B. rubellus, Brod.) is of a simple reddish nankeen colour; Fig. b, (B. pulchellus, Brod.) is white, reddish towards the apex, encircled by a regular series of dark brown zones; and Fig. c, (B. varians, Brod.) is of the same ground tint as Fig. a, with the addition of numerous irregular mottled longitudinal purple-brown streaks. All are characterized by a dark band in the umbilicus which is rather large.

Species 105. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LEMNISCATUS. Bul. testá ovatâ, ventricosâ ampliter umbilicatâ, spirâ subpyramidali, acutâ, anfractibus septem, rotundatis, laxibus, labro simplici, albidâ, vittis fuscis peculiariter interruptis circumdataâ, columellâ et aperturâ fauce roseo.

THE RIBANDED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, largely umbilicated, spire somewhat pyramidal, sharp, whorls seven in number, rounded, smooth, lip simple; whitish, surrounded by peculiarly interrupted brown fillets, columella and interior of the aperture pink.

Deshayes, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 271.
Bulimus vittatus, Broderip (not of Spix).
Hab. Ilo, Peru; Cuming.

The brown bands or fillets which characterize this species are broken up in a peculiar manner into square blotches divided in part by a light transverse dash of white; the columella and interior are pink.

M. D'Orbigny appears to have confounded this and the B. Hemahii together; his Fig. 8 (Voy. Amer. Mérid. Pl. 30.) is a variety of the former species, whilst his Fig. 3 and 4 are of the latter.

Species 106. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FUSOIDES. Bul. testá elongatâ, basi effusâ, anfractibus sex, laxibus, nitidis, columellâ obliquè contortâ, labro vix reflexo; albidâ, strigis carulescente-fuscis angustis undatis longitudinaleiter ornatâ, columellâ intensè roseo-purpureâ, labro albo.

THE FUSOID BULIMUS. Shell elongated, effused at the base, whorls six in number, smooth, shining, columella obliquely twisted, lip scarcely reflected; whitish, ornamented longitudinally with narrow waved streaks of bluish-brown, columella deep rose-purple, lip white.

D'Orbigny, Voyage dans l'Amer. Mérid. p. 215.
Hab. Cacopata, Bolivia (in the woods); Bridges.