BULIMUS.
PLATE XXIV.

Species 155. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS COLORATUS. Bul. testá ovatá, ventricosissimá, vix umbilicatá, spirá brevi, anfractibus quinque, tumido~convexis, pulcherrimè minutè promiscuè granulatis, ad suturas subtilissimè crenulatis, columellá plicá unicá ascendente, aperturâ subamplá, peritremate conspicuè reflexo; albida, flammis luteis longitudinalibus, maculis strigisve nigricantibus umbratis, epidermide olivaceá indutá, apicem versus castaneá, columellá labroque roseis.

THE COLOURED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, very ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, spire short, whorls five in number, tumidly convex, very beautifully minutely promiscuously granulated, very finely crenulated at the sutures, columella with a single ascending fold, aperture rather large, outer and columellar lips connected by a callous lamina on the body whorl, peritreme conspicuously reflected; whitish, with longitudinal yellow flames shaded with blackish spots or streaks, covered by an olive epidermis, chesnut-coloured towards the apex, lip and columella deep rose.

Nyst, Bull. de l'Acad. Royale de Bruxelles, vol. xii. 1ére partie, pl. 1. f. 2 a, b.
Hab. Province of Cumana, Colombia; Funck.

A truly interesting species collected by M. Funck, the South American traveller, in the interior of Colombia, and first described by M. Nyst in the Transactions of the Royal Academy of Brussels, from a specimen of much younger and more pellucid growth than those before me. The most characteristic features of the species are its beautifully granulated surface and richly shadowed undulated painting, whilst the lip is of a deep rose colour, and the interior lined with a delicate pinkish bloom, through which the outer pattern is discernible.

Species 156. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LAMARCKIANUS. Bul. testá ovatá, ventricosissimá, vix umbilicatá, spirá brevi, anfractibus quinque, subplano~convexis, minutè promiscuè obtuso~granulatis, ad suturas subtilissimè crenulatis, columellá plicá unicá ascendente, aperturâ subamplá, peritremate conspicuè reflexo; pallidè livido~fuscescente, punctis grandibus castaneis hic illic piperata, epidermide olivaceá indutá, peritremate livido~fusco.

LAMARCK'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, very ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, spire short, whorls five in number, rather flatly convex, minutely promiscuously obtusely granulated, very finely crenulated at the sutures, columella with a single ascending fold, aperture rather large, peritreme conspicuously reflected; pale livid brown, peppered here and there with large chesnut dots, covered with an olive-brown epidermis, peritreme livid brown.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul.
Hab. Andes of New Granada (at an elevation of about 8,000 feet); Funck.

So closely does this species approximate to the preceding, that I feel somewhat doubtful of the propriety of retaining it; they appear to differ, so far as may be judged by a comparison of the specimens here figured, but it is easy to conceive that a larger series would reveal a much closer affinity between them.

Species 157. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS PARDALIS. Bul.testá oblongo~ovali, subventricosa', crassiusculá, anfractibus quinque, suboblique convolutis, apicem versus minutissimè creberrimè obtuso~granulatis, per suturas undique longitudinaliter crenulatis, columellá contortá, fortiter uniplicatá, labro conspicuè reflexo; purpurascente~fuscá, longitudinaliter albiflammatá, epidermide lutescente~olivaceá indutá, columellá et peritreme albis.

THE PANTHER BULIMUS. Shell oblong-oval, rather ventricose, somewhat thick, whorls five in number, rather obliquely convoluted, very minutely and closely obtusely granulated towards the apex, longitudinally crenulated throughout along the sutures, columella twisted, with a strong winding plait, lip conspicuously reflected; purplish-brown, longitudinally flamed with white, and covered by a yellowish olive epidermis.

DE FERUSSAC, Hist. Moll. terr. et fluv. pl. 112. f. 7. 8.
Bulimus Venezuelensis, Nyst.
Bulimus atrapoides, Jonas.
Hab. Cumana, Venezuela; Funck. Varinas, Venezuela; Dyson.

It is somewhat difficult to recognise this species by the figure of M. De Férussac, it being only known to the illustrious author of the 'Histoire des Coquilles Terrestres'