BULIMUS.
PLATE XXV.

Species 161. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BLAINVILLEANUS. Bul. testa ovata, spirá brevissimá, anfractibus quinque, inflatis, subobliquè convolutis, undique pulcherrimè longitudinaliter et reticulatè corrugatis, columellá fortiter uniplicatá, labro latè reflexo; fumeo-fuscá, strigis castaneis acutè angulatis longitudinaliter pictá, epidermide subtilissimè corrugatá viridi luteo-puncticulatá indutá.

DE BLAINVILLE'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, spire very short, whorls five in number, inflated, somewhat obliquely convoluted, very beautifully longitudinally and reticulately wrinkled throughout, columella strongly one-plaited, lip widely reflected; smoky-brown, longitudinally painted with sharply zigzag chesnut streaks, covered with a very finely wrinkled epidermis, of a green colour sometimes dotted with yellow.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul.
Hab. Zaji, Province of Merida, New Granada; Funck, Linden.

This very beautiful species has precisely the sculpture, colour, and marking of the B. fulminans, overlaid by a remarkable epidermis of a dark green colour, sometimes minutely yellow-dotted, deposited in fine wrinkles resembling those which may frequently be observed on oil-painting that has been exposed to the heat of the sun. It differs in form, being shorter and of a more inflated growth, but is a curious approximation to it in other respects.

Species 162. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MORITZIANUS. Bul. testa oblongo-ovata, ventricosa, anfractibus sex, convexis, laevibus, ad suturas exiliter crenulatis, columellá fortiter uniplicatá, labro reflexo; fuscá, lutescente-albo sèpè longitudinaliter undato-strigatá, epidermide olivaceo-viridi, nunc laevigatá, nunc corrugatá, indutá, columellá labroque interdum vivide rufo-aurantiá, interdum fumeo-fuscá.

MORITZ'S BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, ventricose, whorls six in number, convex, smooth, faintly crenulated at the sutures, columella strongly one-plaited, lip reflected; brown, often longitudinally streaked with yellowish white in zigzag pattern, covered with an olive green epidermis, sometimes smooth, sometimes wrinkled, lip and columella bright reddish-orange or smoky brown.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul.
Hab. Chachopo, Province of Merida, New Granada (in the woods); Funck, Linden.

A fine new species of which Mr. Cuming possesses several examples varying in colour and painting between those selected for illustration. The rich dark green epidermis and deep orange lip and columella present an effective contrast.

Species 163. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CALEDONICUS. Bul. testa subfusiformi-oblongá, crassissimá, anfractibus sex, subdepressis, laevibus, columellá valdè incrassatá, medio depressá, deinde productá et tumidá, parte superiori tuberculo calloso munitá, aperturá auriculatá, contractá, labro incrassato, non reflexo, supernè late sinuato; fuscescente-albá, epidermide castaneá nitidá indutá, columellá labroque albidis, aperturá fauce intensè sanguineo-rufá.

THE NEW CALEDONIA BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiformly oblong, very thick, whorls six in number, rather depressed, smooth, columella very much thickened, depressed in the middle, then produced and swollen, upper part furnished with a callous tubercle, aperture auriculated, contracted, lip thickened, not reflected, broadly sinuated above; brownish-white, covered with a shining chesnut epidermis, lip and columella whitish, interior deep blood red.

PETIT, Magasin de Zoologie.
Hab. New Caledonia.

A remarkable species, chiefly distinguished by the curious auriculated structure of the aperture; there is no plait on the columella, but a prominent callous wart or tubercle. The lip is not reflected but pressed over the aperture, and towards the upper part is characterized by a deep sinus. Were this singularity of growth not proved to be constant in the species, it might have been regarded as an unnatural distortion. We are indebted to M. Petit, a zealous conchologist of Paris, for having described this species, and I have to thank him for sending me a specimen which accords in all respects with those in Mr. Cuming's collection.