BULIMUS.

PLATE XXVII.

Species 167. (Fig. 167 a, Mus. Dennison. Fig. 167 b, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS POWISIANUS. Bul. testá acuminato-oblongá, crassá, apice obtusá, anfractibus laevibus, nitidis, vix striatis; columellá subarcuatá, aperturá parviusculá, paululum effusá, labro incrassato, vix reflexo; fulvescente-spadiceá, strigis irregularibus obliquis, nigricante-viridibus, cingulo unico in anfractu ultimo, conspicuè pictá, interdum immaculatá, cingulo tantum, columellá labroque intensè purpureo-violaceis, peritreme nigri-cante, apice rufo-castaneo.

Powis' BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, thick, obtuse at the apex, whorls smooth, shining, scarcely striated, columella slightly arched, aperture rather small, a little effused, lip thickened, but slightly reflected; fulvous bay, conspicuously painted with irregular, oblique, blackish-green streaks, and a single belt round the last whorl, sometimes unspotted, with the belt only, lip, and columella deep purple violet, peritreme blackish, apex reddish chesnut.

Petit, Magasin de Zool.
Hab. Valle de Cauca, New Granada

This very beautiful and rare species approximates in a manner to the B. regina which follows; it is of a less acuminated form, of extremely solid structure, and, excepting the lip and columella, the pattern of colouring is dissimilar. Of the specimens here represented, that from the collection of Mr. Dennison is distinguished by its rich painting of irregular black-green stripes upon a fulvous-bay ground; in Mr. Cuming's specimen the ground colour is unspotted, but in both examples the last whorl is encircled by a characteristic narrow belt of the same dark colour as the stripes.

Species 168. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS REGINA. Bul. testá subelongato-oblongá, sèpè sinistrali, spirá pyramidali-acuminatâ, apice obtusâ; anfractibus septem ad octo, laevibus vel obliquè tenui-striatis, columellá subcontortâ, labro simplici; fulvescente-albâ, anfractibus supernè fusco viridique variegatis et articulatis, infernè rufescentibus aut purpureo-nigri-cantibus, columellá et aperturâ faucie interdum albis, interdum intensè violaceis, nigro marginatis.

The queen BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately oblong, often sinistral, spire pyramidally acuminated, obtuse at the apex; whorls seven to eight in number, smooth or obliquely finely striated, columella slightly twisted, lip simple; fulvous white, whorls variegated and articulated at the upper part with brown or green, greenish, or purple-black at the lower, aperture and columella sometimes white, sometimes deep violet, edged with black.

D'Orbigny, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 257. pl. 29. f. 4, 5.
Helix regina, De Férussac.
Achatina perversa, Swainson.
Achatina melanostoma, Swainson.
Eadem? Bulimus phlogerus, D'Orbigny.
Hab. Fig. 168 a. Interior of Peru; Poeppig. Fig. 168 b. Chopo, Province of Pamplona, New Granada; Funck, Linden. Fig. 168 c. British Guyana, Brazils. Bolivia; D'Orbigny.

It will be seen by the above-mentioned localities that the Bulimus regina inhabits a wide range of country, and, by the figures, that it is found under very different aspects, having in some localities a dextral, in others a sinistral growth.

I quite agree with M. D'Orbigny in the propriety of referring this species to the genus under consideration rather than to Achatina; the columella is never strictly truncated, and the shell has all the texture, form, and colouring of a Bulimus.

Figure 90 b. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS ZEBRA. This species is also found under so many different aspects, that I thought it desirable to figure a singular variety from the collection of Mr. Dennison, of which that gentleman possesses several examples exactly similar, brought by some vessel into Liverpool, but he is not aware from whence. It is of a remarkably solid growth, heavy as porcelain, and has no indication of the green which predominates more or less in most varieties. The upper part of the whorls is white, the lower encircled by a broad band of light rust colour, and towards the aperture the whorl is crossed by numerous concentric dark streaks.