number, longitudinally rudely striated, encircled near the sutures with rows of rude oblong granules, last whorl very large, inflated, lip but slightly reflected, smoky chesnut-brown within and without.
Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 68.
Hab. Vegas, on the river Quendeu, New Granada.

It may be observed that this shell is almost equally ventricose and inflated with the preceding species, though not exactly of the same form. It is, moreover, of lighter structure, and, instead of being covered with granules, it has merely a few near the sutures of a rude oblong shape, set in exact rows more or less distant from each other.

Species 198. (Mus. Cuming.)

Bulimus gallina-sultana. Bul. testa conico-ovatá, tenui, ventricosissima, anfractibus sex, transversim creberrimè striatis, striis rugosis et minutè undulatis, anfractu ultimo peramplò, inflato, labro simplici; albicante, olivaceo-viridi maculatá et variegatá, epidermide flavidá indutá.

The Sultan-fowl Bulimus. Shell conically ovate, thin, extremely ventricose, whorls six in number, transversely very closely striated, striae rough and minutely undulated, last whorl very large, inflated, lip simple; whitish, blotched and variegated with olive green, and covered with a yellowish epidermis.
Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. viii. p. 222.
La poule sultane, Favanne.
Helix gallina-sultana, Chemnitz.
Achatina pavonina, Spix.
Hab. Bolivia; D'Orbigny.

"We met with the B. gallina-sultana," says M. D'Orbigny, "in the hot damp forests, inhabited by the savage Guarayos, in the centre of the republic of Bolivia. There, they bury themselves among the roots of trees and only come forth during the rainy season; they then crawl upon the trunk and stems to inhale the moisture, and as soon as the rains begin to cease, they descend and again bury themselves in the earth, where they remain concealed until the following season."

Species 199. (Mus. Cuming.)

Bulimus heterotrichus. Bul. testa conico-ovatá, subglobosa, umbilicata, anfractibus sex ad septem, rotundatis, striis undique sub lente minutè decussatis, columellá latiusculá, labro exiliter reflexo; olivaceo-flavidá, epidermide setosá indutá, setis subtilibus, in seriebus spiralibus subdistantibus.

The differently-bristled Bulimus. Shell conically ovate, somewhat globose, umbilicated, whorls six to seven in number, rounded, under the lens minutely decussated throughout with striae, columella rather broad, lip delicately reflected; olive yellow, covered with a bristly epidermis, of which the bristles are fine and arranged in rather distant spiral rows.
Moricand, Mém de Genève, vol. 2. part. 2. p. 430. pl. 2. f. 5, 6.
Hab. Brazil,

Well characterized by its delicate bristly epidermis, deprived of which, the species may be equally recognised by its peculiar form and minute decussated sculpture, looking, as it were, like a fine web of punctures.