THE RAVINE-INHABITING BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls somewhat ventricose, longitudinally striated, and peculiarly very finely marked besides with short impressed striæ, minutely granulated and radiately ridged towards the apex, columella scarcely twisted, lip reflected; livid brown, longitudinally obscurely banded, covered with a rather thin horny epidermis, lip white.
D'Orbigny, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 302.
Hab. Cochabamba, Bolivia (in deep ravines at the base of the snowy peaks of the Cordilleras); D'Orbigny.

Intermediate, in a manner, between the B. maximus and ovatus, of smaller size, and apparently distinct. In the specimen here figured from Mr. Cuming's collection, the surface is curiously marked by numerous rows of short longitudinal hollowed striæ; it is also encircled by a couple of scratched grooves, but these are evidently the result of accident.

Species 209. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GRANULOSUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, anfractibus ventricosis, longitudinaliter rudè striatis, un- dique minutè granulatis, prope apicem subobscure radiatim liratis, columellá subcontortá, labro reflexo; luteo-brunnescente, epidermide tenuiculá indutá, columellá labroque pallidè roseis, aperturae fauce cæruleo-albicante.

THE GRANULOUS BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls ventricose, longitudinally rudely striated, minutely granulated throughout, somewhat obscurely radiately ridged near the apex, columella somewhat twisted, lip reflected; yellowish brown, covered with a thin epidermis, lip and columella pale rose, interior of the aperture bluish white.
Helix granulosa, Rang, Descr. coquilles terrestres, p. 49.
pl. 2.
Hab. Brazil.

It is much to be feared whether this is not truly a variety of the B. ovatus. The typical differences are as follows:—in form the B. granulosus is of a less shortened umid growth than the B. ovatus, and in sculpture, it is more prominently granulated throughout, whilst the radiated ridges about the apex are more obscure; it is, moreover, of a lighter tint of colour, and varies considerably in the nature of the epidermis, which in this species is slight and fibrous, but in the B. ovatus, is thick, horny, and shining.

Species 210. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS OBLONGUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, vix umbilicatá, nunc subamplá, tenuiculá, ventricósâ, nunc parviore, crassâ, ponderósâ, anfractibus convexis, plus minusve costulato-striatis, labro reflexo; fulvo-spadiceá, columellá labroque intensè roseis.

THE OBLONG BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, scarcely umbilicated, sometimes rather large, thin, and ventricose, sometimes smaller, thick, and ponderous, whorls convex, more or less sculptured with rib-like striæ, lip reflected; fulvous-bay, lip and columella deep rose.
Helix oblonga, Muller, Verm. vol. ii. p. 86.
Bulimus hamastoma, Scopoli, Lamarck.
Hab. Eastern coast of South America.

This well-known species inhabits a wide range of country, and varies greatly in size and substance according to the local conditions of climate and vegetation, at one time large and ventricose like the specimen selected for illustration, at another smaller, thick, and ponderous, with the lip not unfrequently thickened to an extent truly remarkable.

M. D'Orbigny has some curious remarks on the habits and age of this species. "The Bulimus oblongus," says this intelligent traveller and naturalist, "buries itself deeply in the earth during the dry season, and comes forth at the time of the rains. Towards the close of the rainy season, it deposits its cretaceous eggs in the earth, and the young escape from them during the first rains which follow." The author then goes on to describe that about two or three years is occupied in the formation of the shell, when, having arrived at the age of maturity, the lip is reflected, and at a more advanced stage becomes more or less thickened according to circumstances. After an examination of what he considers to be annual marks of increase of growth, Mr. D'Orbigny arrives at the conclusion that the Bulimus oblongus lives for a period of about ten years.