BULIMUS.—PLATE XLII.

of which the author informs us he collected a single dead specimen in a damp forest at the base of the Eastern Cordilleras of Bolivia, but possesses neither the form nor marking of that species.

I am indebted to Mr. Linden, the botanical traveller in New Granada, for the possession of several examples of this chaste and beautiful shell, characterized by different patterns of epidermis, and have thought it a subject not unworthy of being dedicated to an eminent collector in North Britain, the Honourable Mrs. Cathcart, distinguished by her zeal and affability.

Species 266. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS GLANDIFORMIS. Bul. testá ovatá, ventricosâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quatuor ad quinque, rugoso-striatis et granulatis, columellâ subtortuosâ, labro sublatè reflexo; fumeo-albiddâ, strigis brevibus fuscis e suturis fulgnuratâ, epidermide olivaceâ, luteo-punctatâ et marmoratâ, indutâ.

THE ACORN-SHAPED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, whorls four to five in number, roughly striated and granulated, columella slightly twisted, lip rather broadly reflected; smoky-white, marked with short zigzag brown streaks out of the sutures, covered with an olive epidermis, dotted and mottled with yellow.

LEA, Extr. Trans. Nat. Hist. Soc. Philadelphia, pl. 23. f. 92.
Hab. New Granada.

It is not without some doubt that I attribute this shell to Mr. Lea's B. glandiformis, whose figure is very obscure.

Species 267. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS PULICARIUS. Bul. testá ovatá, tenuiculâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quatuor ad quinque, inflatis, subtiliter granulatis, longitudinaliter rugoso-striatis, transversim obscimè sulcatis; columellâ latè reflexâ, aperturâ subamplâ, labro reflexo; albiddâ, castaneo irregulariter punctatâ, labro et interdum faucè aperturâ purpurascente-roseis, epidermide olivaceo-fuscâ aut viridescente indutâ.

THE FLEA-SPOTTED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather thin, scarcely umbilicated, whorls four to five in number, inflated, finely granulated, longitudinally roughly striated, transversely obscurely grooved; columella broadly reflected; whitish, irregularly dotted with chesnut, lip and sometimes the interior of the aperture purple-rose, covered with an olive-brown or greenish epidermis.

Hab. New Granada.

A delicate species more or less irregularly dotted with black, and richly coloured with rose-purple about the lip and aperture.

Species 268. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PLECTOSTYLUS. Bul. testá ovatá, crassiusculâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quatuor ad quinque, rugoso-striatis et minutè granulatis, columellâ tortuosâ et fortiter plicatâ, labro incrassato, reflexo; fumeo-castaneâ, punctis perpaucis nigris obscurè notatâ, epidermide fusca indutâ, epidermide secundâ albâ in strigis brevibus e suturis fulgnuratâ.

THE TWISTED-COLUMN BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather thick, scarcely umbilicated, whorls four to five in number, roughly striated and minutely granulated, columella twisted and strongly plaited, lip thickened, reflected; smoky chesnut, obscurely marked with a few black dots, covered with a brown epidermis, and a second white epidermis emerging from the sutures in short zigzag streaks.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1847, p. 230.
Hab. Chacopo, Province of Merida, New Granada; Funck.

From the same locality as the preceding species, remarkable for its twisted columella.