BULIMUS.—PLATE XLVIII.

Hab. Province of Corrientes, Argentine Republic, Bolivia (under dead leaves); D'Orbigny.

The chief specific peculiarity of this species resides in the painting, which does not descend below the sutural line of the whorls.

Species 314. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FERIATUS. Bul. testá subfusiformi, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, subtiliter rugoso-striatis, suturis impressis, columellâ reflexâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro expanso; fuscescente, fusco strigatâ et variegatâ, punctis albis aspersâ.

THE UNEMPLOYED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiform, scarcely umbilicated, whorls six in number, finely roughly striated, sutures impressed, columella reflected, aperture rather small, lip expanded, light brown, streaked and variegated with bright brown, sprinkled with white dots.

Hab. ——?

Dr. Pfeiffer, when in London, attributed this shell to the B. lophoicus of D'Orbigny, but it fails to agree with the description and figure of that species, and appears to be equally distinct from all others.

Species 315. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS BONTIAE. Bul. testá conico-ovatâ, tenui, ventricosa, subtiliter umbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque, minutè obliquè striatis, medio tumidis, inflatis, columellâ latè reflexâ, labro tenui, expanso, non reflexo.

THE BONTIA BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, thin, ventricose, finely umbilicated, whorls five in number, minutely obliquely striated, swollen and inflated round the middle, columella broadly reflected, lip thin, expanded, not reflected.

Helix Bontia, Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vol. ix. p. 156. pl. 134. f. 1216, 1217.
Hab. Southern India; Jerdon.

An extremely rare species, though described upwards of sixty years since by Chemnitz in his Conchylien Cabinet. The specimen here represented, for which I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. Benson, was collected in Southern India by Mr. Jerdon of Madras.

Species 316. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONFUSUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatâ, tenuiculâ, vix umbilicatâ, spiræ suturis impressis, anfractibus sex, convexis, longitudinaliter creberrimè plicato-striatis, et hic illic indentatis; fuscescente-albidâ.

THE PUZZLING BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather thin, scarcely umbilicated, sutures of the spire impressed, whorls six in number, convex, longitudinally very closely plicately striated, and here and there indented; light brownish white.

Hab. ——?

This shell resembles M. D'Orbigny's B. Torallyi in form, but does not agree with it in the detail of character.

Species 317. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS QUITENSIS. Bul. testá conico-ovatâ, subampliter umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, convexis, concentricè subrugoso-striatis; columellâ labroque vix reflexis; fuscescente castaneo-fusco hic illic strigatâ, umbilico nigricante, columellâ labroque purpureo-castaneis, nitentibus.

THE QUITO BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, rather largely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, convex, concentrically rather roughly striated, lip and columella scarcely reflected; light-brown, streaked here and there with chesnut-brown, umbilicus blackish, lip and columella shining purple chesnut.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1847.
Hab. Quito, Republic of Equador.

The general aspect of this shell is not much unlike that of an immature Partula faba.

Species 318. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MONILIFER. Bul. testá subpyramidali-ovatâ, umbilicatâ, anfractibus convexis, laevibus, columellâ reflexâ, aperturâ subquadratâ, labro simplici; opaco-albâ, fasciis duabus interruptis aurantio-fuscis, valde indistinctis, cingulatâ, aperturâ aurantio-tinctâ.

THE NECKLACE-BOUND BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramially ovate, umbilicated, whorls convex, smooth, columella reflected, aperture somewhat square, lip simple; opake-white, encircled with two very indistinct interrupted orange-brown bands, aperture tinged with orange.

Hab. ——?

Indistinctly encircled by two characteristic interrupted bands. The aperture is remarkable for the same lateral compression as in the B. Guadaloupensis.