BULIMUS.
PLATE LIII.

Species 346. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CONSIMITIS. Bul. testá oblongá, subcylindraceá, basi rotundatá, tenui, anfractibus sex ad septem, longitudiniter tenui-striatis, ultimo ventricosiusculo, columellá simplicissimá, labro simplici; brunnescente, nitente, strigis saturationibus hic illic notatá, aperturæ fauce cærulescente.

THE SIMILAR BULIMUS. Shell oblong, somewhat cylindrical, rounded at the base, thin, whorls six to seven in number, longitudinally finely striated, last whorl rather ventricose, columella very simple, lip simple; light brown, marked here and there with streaks of darker brown, interior of the aperture bluish.

Hab. ——?

This shell approaches nearest to the B. Taunaisii, but is certainly distinct.

Species 347. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS TENEBRICUS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, anfractibus septem ad octo, subrotundatis, prope suturas subtilissimè reticulatis, margine crenulatis, columellá revolutá, labro simplici, acuto; albidá, purpureo-roseo tinctá, purpureo-nigricante conspicuè grandimaculatá.

THE DARKENED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, whorls seven to eight in number, rather rounded, very finely reticulated near the sutures, crenulated along the edge, columella rolled back, lip simple, sharp; whitish, stained with purple-rose and conspicuously painted with large blotches of purple-black.

Hab. Ibu, West Africa; Fraser.

Distinguished from B. flammeus, by its dwarf-like growth and rich purple-rose hue. The specimen here represented, was collected by Mr. Fraser during the unfortunate Expedition to explore the source of the Niger.

Species 348. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS SPECTRALIS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, laevibus, columellá revolutá, labro tenui, acuto; albidá, epidermide tenui, stramineâ indutá.

THE SPECTRAL BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, slightly umbilicated, whorls seven in number, smooth, columella rolled back, lip thin, sharp; whitish, covered with a thin straw-coloured epidermis.

Hab. ——?

Care must be taken not to confound this species with the uncoloured variety of B. flammeus, from which it differs in form, and in not being reticulated.

Species 349. (Mus. Metcalfe.)
BULIMUS INCA. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem ad octo, longitudiniter plicato-striatis, suturis subprofundis, columellá latè reflexá, labro paululum reflexo; nigricante-brunneá, subolvaceá, columellá albá, aperturæ fauce purpureo-cinereá.

THE INCA BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, umbilicated, whorls seven to eight in number, longitudinally plicately striated, sutures rather deep, columella broadly reflected, lip a little reflected; blackish-brown, tinged with olive, columella white, interior of the aperture purple-ash.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. p. 292. pl. 38. f. 6,7.

Hab. Yungas and Cochabamba, Bolivia; D'Orbigny.

The specimen here represented from the collection of Mr. Metcalfe, is the only one that I am aware of in this country.

Species 350. (Mus. Dennison.)
BULIMUS SUFFUSUS. Bul. testá elongato-cylindraceá, umbilicatá, anfractibus novem, subobsoletè plicato-striatis, margine crenulatis, laevibus, nitidis, suturis profundis, aperturá parvá, oblongá, columellá revolutá, labro simplici, acuto; albidá, roseo suffusâ, epidermide tenui lutescente indutá.

THE BLUSHING BULIMUS. Shell elongately cylindrical, umbilicated, whorls nine in number, rather obsoletely plicately striated, crenulated at the margin, smooth, shining, sutures deep, aperture small, oblong, columella rolled back, lip simple, acute; whitish, suffused with rose, and covered with a thin yellowish epidermis.

Hab. ——?