BULIMUS.—PLATE LXII.

to the liberality of A. L. Gubba, Esq., of Havre. It is of a swollen ovate form with the spire rather sharply acuminated, and the columella is distinguished by a sharp winding plait. The ground colour of the shell is a reddish purple, the last whorl being particularly characterized by a thin ash-coloured epidermis, sprinkled with light fulvous spots, all inclining towards the lip which is of a delicate flesh-pink.

Species 428. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LINEATUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-conicâ, sub-umbilicata, anfractibus septem, laevibus, sub lente minutè striatis, columellâ latè reflexâ, aperturâ subobliquâ, labro paululum reflexo; albidâ, cinnamomeo-fuscescente obliquè lineatâ et strigatâ, labro niveo.

THE LINEATED BULIMUS. Shell acuminately conical, slightly umbilicated, whorls seven in number, smooth, minutely striated beneath the lens, columella broadly reflected, aperture rather oblique, lip a little reflected; whitish, obliquely lineated and streaked with light cinnamon brown, lip snow-white.

SPIX, Test. Bras. p. 8. pl. 7. f. 6.
Hab. Brazil.

Not much unlike the B. cinnamomeo-lineatus in general appearance.

Species 429. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PSEUDO-SUCCINEA. Bul. testâ subfusiformi-oblongâ, tenuissimâ, vitrea, pellucidâ, anfractibus quin-

que ad sex, subtilissimè striatulis, ultimo inflato, patulo, columellâ labroque tenuibus, simplicibus; stramineo-corneâ.

THE FALSE-SUCCINEA BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiformly oblong, very thin, glassy, transparent, whorls five to six in number, very finely and delicately striated, last whorl inflated, wide open, lip and columella thin, simple; pale straw horn-colour.

Potiez and Michaud, Gal. de Douai, vol. i. p. 140. pl. 13. f. 5. 6.
Helix pseudo-Succinea, Moricand.
Hab. Bahia, Brazil.

An extremely transparent glassy shell of a delicate pale straw-colour.

Species 430. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NATALENSIS. Bul. testâ angulato-conicâ, Trochiformi, anfractibus sex, obliquè striatis, ultimo angulato-productis, columellâ subincrassatâ, labro simplici; fulvâ, nitente, nigro-fusco conspicuè fasciatâ.

THE NATAL BULIMUS. Shell angularly conical, Trochus-shaped, whorls six in number, obliquely striated, last whorl angularly produced, columella rather thickened, lip simple; fulvous, shining, conspicuously banded with black-brown.

Krauss, Sudafrikanischen Moll. p. 71. pl. 5. f.1.
Hab. Port Natal, South Africa.

A light semitransparent trochiform shell, conspicuously dark-banded at the sutures and round the middle of the last whorl.