Fig. 572.
As this species belongs more properly to Achatina, the reader is referred to Plate XXI. of that genus for description. For Bulimus Sp. 572, see Pl. LXXX.

Species 573. (Mus. Benson.)
BULIMUS EREMITA. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongâ, sub-profundè umbilicatâ, anfractibus octo, convexis, obscurè subirregulariter striatis, aperturâ obliquè productâ, columellâ latâ, labro paululum expanso; cærulescente-albâ.
THE HERMIT BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, rather deeply umbilicated, whorls eight in number, convex, obscurely rather irregularly striated, aperture obliquely produced, columella broad, lip a little expanded; bluish-white.
BENSON, MSS.
Hab. Afghanistan; Hutton.
Collected by Capt. Hutton on his march with Shah Shuja's force from the Bolun Pass to Cabul, during the recent operations of the British Army in India.

Species 574. (Mus. Benson.)
BULIMUS RUSTICUS. Bul. testá ovatâ, solidiusculâ, haud umbilicatâ, spirâ obtusâ, anfractibus quinque ad sex, convexis, laevibus, columellâ plano-incrassatâ, subcallosâ, quasi dentatâ, aperturâ obliquâ, labro reflexo; castaneo-brunneâ, circa columellam obscurè fasciatâ, albidâ versus apicem, columellâ labroque albis.
THE SIMPLE BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather solid, not umbilicated, spire obtuse, whorls five to six in number, convex, smooth, columella flatly thickened, rather callous, as if toothed, aperture oblique, lip reflected; chestnut-brown, obscurely banded around the columella, white towards the apex, lip and columella white.
Mousson, Land and Suss. Moll. Java, p. 114. pl. 22 f. 1.
Hab. Eastern Java.
I am indebted to Mr. Benson for an authentic example of this species, received from M. Mousson. It is, however, impossible to describe it satisfactorily, owing to the shell having lost its epidermis, which, to judge by analogy, would afford important characters.
The author notices having a number of dead specimens in his possession, collected in Eastern Java, and remarks, that it is the only representative hitherto found in that island, of the richly clad group, comprising B. pythogaster and its congeners, inhabiting the Philippines.

Species 575. (Mus. Benson.)
BULIMUS BOYSIANUS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongâ, sinistrali, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus octo, convexis, subrugoso-striatis, ad suturas subtilissimè plicatis, lineis spiralibus, sub lente minutè decussatis, columellâ reflexâ; corneo-fuscâ, lineis undulatis opaco-albis variegatâ.
Boys' BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, sinistral, scarcely umbilicated, whorls eight in number, convex, rather coarsely striated, very finely plicated at the sutures, minutely decussated beneath the lens with spiral lines; horny brown, variegated with waved opake-white lines.
BENSON, MSS.
Hab. Kemaon, Western Himalaya; Boys.
Named by Mr. Benson in honour of Capt. Boys, to whom we are indebted for this and many interesting species collected in North Western India.

Species 576. (Mus. Benson.)
BULIMUS CHERSONESICUS. Bul. testá acuminato-cylindraceâ, sinistrali, compressè umbilicatâ, anfractibus octo, convexis, subobscure rugoso-striatis, columellâ latâ, verticali; cærulescente-albâ, fulvescente hic illic pallidè tinctâ, aperturâe faucè pallidè aurantiâ.
THE CRIMEA BULIMUS. Shell acuminately cylindrical, sinistral, compressly umbilicated, whorls eight in number, convex, somewhat obscurely coarsely striaed, columella broad, vertical; bluish-white, faintly tinged here and there with light brown, interior of the aperture light orange.
SOWERBY, MSS. Jay, Catalogue, 1839, p. 55.
Hab. Crimea, Southern Russia.
This is one of the list of species unknown to Dr. Pfeiffer. The specimen here figured from the collection of Mr. Benson was received from Mr. Sowerby with the above name in 1834.

Species 577. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CONULUS. Bul. testá conico-ovatâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, rotundatis, obliquè subtilissimè striatis; pellucido-corneâ.
THE LITTLE CONE BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, scarcely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, rounded, obliquely very finely striated; transparent horny.
Hab. Port Natal, South Africa.
Very thin and transparent, of a conical form rather broad at the base.