ously streaked or banded, columella and interior of the aperture rose-purple.
Hab. New Granada.

Except in the rose-purple hue of the columella and aperture, the pattern of colouring is too variable in this beautiful species to particularize. Its graceful effused growth is characteristic.

Species 602. (Mus. Taylor.)

BULIMUS TAYLORIANUS. Bul. testá ventricoso-oblongá, tenui, inflatá, haud umbilicatá, anfractibus quinque, longitudinaleiter obscurè plicato-striatis, ad suturas leviter crenulatis, sub lente undique minutissimè granulatis, anfractu ultimo valde maximo, peculiariter descendente, columellâ tenuissimâ, reflexâ, labro vix reflexo; castaneo-fuscâ, semipellucidâ, lineis perpaucis nigris api- cem versus fulguratâ, columellâ labroque roseo tinctis.

TAYLOR'S BULIMUS. Shell ventricosely oblong, thin, inflated, not umbilicated, whorls five in number, longitudinally obscurely plicately striated, slightly crenulated at the sutures, very minutely granulated throughout beneath the lens, last whorl very much the largest, peculiarly descending, columella very thin, reflected, lip scarcely reflected; chestnut-brown, semipellucid, lightning-marked towards the apex with a few black lines, lip and columella tinged with rose.
Hab. Environs of Quito.

A delicate inflated species of a dark transparent brown colour, marked with dark zigzag lines near the apex, and having the thin lip and columellar edge tinged with rose.

Being indebted to Thomas Lombe Taylor, Esq., for the species, I have the pleasure to name it in honour of that distinguished collector.

Species 603. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SINISTRALIS. Bul. testá subacuminato-oblongá, crassiusculâ, sinistrali, vix umbilicatâ, anfrac-

tibus septem, subrotundatis, oblique striatis, columellâ reflexâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro reflexo; luteâ, olivaceo-viridi marmoratâ, aperturae fauce intese fuscâ, labro albo.

THE SINISTRAL BULIMUS. Shell somewhat acuminately oblong, rather thick, sinistral, scarcely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, somewhat rounded, obliquely striated, columella reflected, aperture rather small, lip reflected; yellow, marbled with olive-green, interior of the aperture very dark brown, lip white.
Hab. Java.

Care should be taken not to confound this species with the green variety of B. laevus, elevated to the rank of a species by Mousson, under the name B. furcillatus, from which it is certainly distinct.

Species 604. (Mus. Taylor.)

BULIMUS ALBIZONATUS. Bul. testá subpyramidali-conica, basi depressiusculâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, plano-convexis, oblique tenuistriatis, suturis peculiariter lineari-incisis, anfractu ultimo basi angulato, columellâ latè reflexâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro reflexo; intus extusque cærulescente-albâ, zonulâ angustâ opaco-albâ ad angulum anfractús ultimi.

THE WHITE-ZONED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramially conical, rather depressed at the base, scarcely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, flatly convex, obliquely finely striated, sutures peculiarly linearly engraved, last whorl angled at the base, columella broadly reflected; bluish white within and without, having a narrow opake white zone at the angle of the last whorl.
Hab. Ceylon.

A pale blue-white shell, remarkably characterized by a narrow opake-white zone round the middle of the whorls, exactly in the place of the suture, concealed in all but the last whorl by the superposition of one whorl upon the other.