somewhat obscurely stained with streaks of blue-black, lip and columella pale rose.
Hab. Sebundoi, New Granada.

Distinguished by its elegantly effused growth. The dark painting is somewhat obscure and has a mottled appearance.

Species 616. (Mus. Cuming.)
Bulimus laetus. Bul. testá acuminato-oblongá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, laevibus vel tenuistriatis, columellá reflexá, appressá, aperturá ovatá, labro vix reflexá; castaneo-spadiceá, zonulis duabus angustis luteo-albis cingulatá, columellá labroque roseis.

The cheerful Bulimus. Shell acuminately oblong, scarcely umbilicated, whorls six in number, smooth or finely striated, columella reflected, appressed, aperture ovate, lip scarcely reflected; chestnut-fawn colour, encircled by two narrow yellowish-white zones, lip and columella rose-pink.
Hab. Sebundoi, New Granada.

From the same locality as the preceding species, and very closely allied; it differs, however, in form. Mr. Taylor has a specimen collected independently of this, of exactly similar pattern and colour.

Species 617. (Mus. Cuming.)
Bulimus occultus. Bul. testá cylindraceo-fusiformi, basi angustè compressá, subumbilicatá, anfractibus novem, plano-convexis, ad suturas superficialiter canaliculatis, aperturá quadrato-oblongá, tridentatá, labro tenui, effuso; pellucido-albá, ad umbilicum atque pone labrum nigricante-castaneo tinctá.

The concealed Bulimus. Shell cylindrically fusiform, narrowly compressed at the base, slightly umbilicated, whorls nine in number, flatly convex, superficially channelled at the sutures, aperture squarely oblong, three-toothed, lip thin, effused; transparent white, stained with dark chestnut at the umbilicus, and behind the lip.
Hab. Brazil.

Allied in form and general aspect to B. Bahiensis, but differing materially in the character of the aperture.

Species 618. (Mus. Taylor.)
Bulimus quinquedentatus. Bul. testá cylindraceá, crassiusculá, basi compressè umbilicatá, anfractibus octo, plano-convexis, obliquè tenuistriatis, aperturá parvâ, coarctatâ, quinque- vel sex-dentatâ, labro plano-incrassato; corneo-olivaceá, dentibus labroque albis.

The five-toothed Bulimus. Shell cylindrical, rather thick, base compressly umbilicated, whorls eight in number, flatly convex, obliquely finely striated, aperture small, contracted, five- or six-toothed, lip flatly thickened; horny olive, teeth and lip white.
Pfeiffer, Symbolae, vol. i. p. 84.
Pupa quinquedentata, Mühlfeldt.
Hab. Dalmatia.

A shell of rather solid cylindrical growth, with the aperture much contracted.

Species 619. (Mus. Benson.)
Bulimus pretiosus. Bul. testá cylindraceo-ovatá, compressè umbilicatá, anfractibus laevibus aut tenuistriatis, columellá latè verticaliter dilatatá, aperturá parciusculá, suborbiculari, labro tenuè reflexá; pallidè corneá, pellucidá, strigis opaco-albis numerosis undatá.

The precious Bulimus. Shell cylindrically ovate, compressly umbilicated, whorls smooth or finely striated, columella broadly vertically dilated, aperture rather small, nearly orbicular, lip thinly reflected; pale horny, transparent, waved with numerous opake-white streaks.
Cantor, MS.
Hab. Field of Chillianwalla, India (found on Mimosa bushes on the banks of the Jhelum); Cantor.

An extremely delicate and interesting species, allied to B. rufistrigatus, from which it differs slightly in form, but most distinctly in pattern. Mr. Benson, to whom it was communicated by Dr. Cantor, informs me that it was collected during the late campaign of the British army in the Punjab, on the plain of Chillianwalla, the locality of Lord Gough's dearly purchased victory.