BULIMUS.—PLATE LXXXVIII.

very minutely indented, columella rather thickened, reflected; whitish, partially tinged with pink, covered with a thin horny olive-yellow epidermis, interior of the aperture white.
Hab. Minas Geraes, Brazil; Miers.

This fine species is nearest allied to B. pudicus, from which the plicate growth of the columella differs materially in form; whilst the shell is of a more oblong growth.

Species 659. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DOMINICUS. Bul. testá ovatá, tenui, inflatá, anfractibus quinque, sub lente minutissimè decussatim striatis, columellá tenuè reflexá et appressá, aperturá ovatá, labro simplici; pellucido-corneá, fasciá castaneá interruptá cingulatá, anfractu ultimo trifasciato.

THE DOMINGO BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, inflated, whorls five in number, very minutely decussately striated beneath the lens, columella thinly reflected and appressed, aperture ovate, lip simple; transparent horny, encircled with an interrupted chestnut band, last whorl three-banded.
Hab. St. Domingo; Sallè.

Resembling B. Humboldtii, but much smaller and more transparent, and of a different form.

Species 660. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LIBERIANUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, tumidiusculá, compressè umbilicatá, apice obtusá, anfractibus sex, convexis, ad suturas tenuimarginatis, obliquè subtiliter et creberrimè elevato-striatis, columellá latè verticaliter reflexá, aperturá obliquè subquadratá; pellucido-albá, immaculatá.

THE LIBERIAN BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather swollen, compressly umbilicated, obtuse at the apex, whorls six in number, convex, thinly margined at the sutures, obliquely finely and very closely sculptured with raised striæ, columella broadly rather vertically reflected, aperture obliquely square-formed; transparent white, unspotted.

GOULD, MSS.
Hab. Liberia, West Africa.

This very interesting species belongs to the same type as the Pupa grandis of the islands of Socotra and Madagascar, and, bordering on the confines of the two genera, may be referred with equal propriety to either.