ACHATINA.—PLATE XIV.

and regarding the columella to be truly plaited, placed the species among the Mitres in their genus Voluta.

Species 53. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA LATTREI. Achat. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, Volvariaformi, spirá brevi, anfractibus septem, convexo-planis, laevibus, cuticulam carneam politam indutis, columellá contortá, lirá callosá marginatá, aperturá elongatá, angustá; fulvá, rufo-brunneo longitudinaleiter subremotè strigatá.
LATTRE'S ACHATINA. Shell cylindrically oblong, Volvaria-shaped, spire short, whorls seven in number, convexly flattened, smooth, covered with a polished horny cuticle, columella twisted, edged with a callous ridge, aperture elongated and narrow; fulvous, longitudinally rather remotely streaked with red-brown.
PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc. 1845. p. 138.
Hab. Central America; Lattre.

The shell of this species approaches the form of Volvaria or Tornatella, though totally unconnected with those genera; the columella is not, however, plaited, but elevated at the base into a callous ridge, as in the Achatina columna. The entire surface of the shell is covered with a perfectly transparent polished horny cuticle, through which the dark stripes show with additional lustre.

It is a rare and extremely interesting species, collected by M. Lattre in Central America, probably in the province of Vera Cruz, and named by Dr. Pfeiffer in honour of that eminent traveller.

Species 54. (Mus. Dennison.)
ACHATINA NIGRICANS. Achat. testá oblongo-ovatá, solidiusculá, anfractibus septem, convexis, supernè subtiliter concentriè striatis, deinde laevibus, cuticulam corneam politam indutis, columellá brevi, contortá, attenuatè truncatá, aperturá oblongá, labro medio subdilatato; livido-nigrá, suturis basique fulvis, strigis fulvis per-paucis longitudinalibus notatá.
THE BLACKISH ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, rather solid, whorls seven in number, convex, finely concentrically striated round the upper part, then smooth, covered with a polished horny cuticle, columella short, twisted, attenuately truncated, aperture oblong, lip slightly dilated in the middle; livid-black, sutures and base fulvous, marked with a very few fulvous streaks.
PFEIFFER, (Glandina,) Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845. p. 75.
Hab. Vera Cruz, Central America; Lattre.

An interesting species, covered with a transparent cuticle of the same highly glazed character as the preceding, from the same locality, more swollen in form, and of a peculiar dark beetle brown or black.

Species 55. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA VOLUTA. Achat testá subcylindraceo-oblongá, oleaceá, solidiusculá, spirá brevi, anfractibus septem, subplano-convexis, laevibus, cuticulam corneam politam indutis, columellá brevi, arcuatá, abruptè truncatá, aperturá elongatá, angustá, labro medio subdilatato; olivaceo-brunnescente, subindistinctè longitudinaliter strigatá.
THE VOLUTE ACHATINA. Shell somewhat cylindrically oblong, olive-shaped, rather solid, spire short, whorls seven in number, somewhat flatly convex, smooth, covered with a polished horny cuticle, columella short, arched, abruptly truncated, aperture elongated, narrow, lip slightly dilated in the middle; light olive-brown, somewhat indistinctly longitudinally streaked.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 300, note.
Bulla voluta, Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vol. ix. pt. 2. p. 16. pl. 117. f. 1009, 1010.
Bulimus glans, Bruguière.
Helix (Cochlicopa) glans, Férrussac.
Achatina glans, Lamarck.
Polyphemus glans, De Montford.
Glandina glans, Beck.
Glandina olivacea, Schumacher.
Hab. West Indies.

The above species may be regarded as the type of this shining horn-clad group. Though of rare occurrence, it is admirably figured in vol. ix. of the Conchylien Cabinet, published in 1786.

Species 56. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA DOMINICENSIS. Achat. testá fusiformi-oblongá, anfractibus septem, convexis, superne subrotundatis, longitudinaliter subtilissimè et creberrimè inciso-striatis, columellá subcontortá, labro medio dilatato; fulvo-aurantiá, strigis latiusculis intensè castaneis, remotis, e suturis descendentibus, notatis.
THE ST. DOMINGO ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong, whorls seven in number, convex, somewhat rounded at the upper part, longitudinally very finely and closely deeply striated, columella rather twisted, lip dilated in the middle; fulvous-orange, marked with distant rather broad dark chestnut streaks descending from the sutures.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 302, note.
Bulla Dominicensis, Gmelin.