Species 64. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA GRIFFITHSII. Achat. testá subfusiformi, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus novem, creberrimè et subtilissimè costulato-striatis, ultimo medio impresso, basi expanso, columellá contortá, attenuatè truncatá; pellucido-albá, strigis castaneis sparsis obliquè pictá.
Griffith's Achatina. Shell somewhat fusiform, spire acuminated, whorls nine in number, very closely and finely sculptured with rib-like striae, last whorl impressed in the middle and expanded at the base, columella twisted, attenuately truncated; transparent-white, obliquely painted with scattered chestnut streaks.
Adams, Pro. Boston Nat. Hist. Soc., 1845, p. 14.
Hab. Jamaica.
The compressed growth of the last whorl has very much the appearance of an accidental distortion.

Species 65. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA RANGIANA. Achat. testá elongato-turritá, crassá, solidá, anfractibus undecim, plano-convexis, subtilissimè arcuatim striatis, lineis impressis spiralibus subdistantibus obscurè notatis, columellá simplici, callosá, vix truncatá, aperturá parvá; albido-stramineâ.
Rang's Achatina. Shell elongately turreted, thick, solid, whorls eleven in number, flatly convex, very finely arcuately striated, obscurely marked with rather distant impressed spiral lines, columella simple, callous, scarcely truncated, aperture small; whitish straw-colour.
Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 115.
Hab. Republic of Mexico; Linden.
A shell of peculiarly solid growth verging on Bulimus, allied to the elongately turreted group of that genus of which B. calcareus is the type.

Species 66. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA TORTILLANA. Achat. testá subfusiformi-oblongá, subcentricosa, anfractibus septem, subtilissimè et creberrimè costulato-striatis, columellá contortá et attenuatè truncatá; lutescente-corneá, pellucidá, quasi vitrea.
The Tortilla Achatina. Shell somewhat fusiformly oblong, rather ventricose, whorls seven in number, very finely and closely rib-like striated, columella twisted and attenuately truncated; yellowish horny, transparent, as though glassy.
Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 32.
Hab. Tortilla, Central America.
The opake blotches and streaks described by Dr. Pfeiffer, appear to be merely accidental in the individual specimen.

Species 67. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA ASSIMILIS. Achat. testá oblongá, apice sub-obtusá, anfractibus sex, laevibus, politis, e suturis subtilissimè impresso-striatis, supernè tenuimarginatis, columellá breviter reflexá, aperturá oblongá; vividè pellucido-corneá.
The allied Achatina. Shell oblong, rather obtuse at the apex, whorls six in number, smooth, polished, very finely impressly striated at the sutures, thinly margined round the upper part, columella shortly reflected, aperture oblong; bright transparent horny.
Hab. ——?

This approaches very closely to the A. obtusa, Sp. 62, but is of more transparent texture, whilst the columella is less abruptly truncated. The shell is composed of a whorl less in number, and the spire is shorter.

Species 68. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA HUGELI. Achat. testá pyramidalı-oblongá, anfractibus decem, rotundatis, superně subtilissimè arcuatim striatis, ad suturas minutè marginatis, columellá valdè arcuatá et contortá, aperturá parvá; pellucido-albícante, hyaliná, epidermide tenui cornea lutescente.
Hugel's Achatina. Shell pyramidally oblong, whorls ten in number, rounded, very finely arcuately striated at the upper part, minutely margined at the sutures, columella much arched and twisted, aperture small; transparent whitish, hyaline, with a thin yellowish horny epidermis.
Pfeiffer, Symbolæ, vol. ii. f. 58.
Hab. ——?
A neat hyaline species of pyramidal growth, marked with delicate covered striae round the upper part of the whorls, which become fainter as the shell approaches maturity.