ACHATINA.—PLATE XVIII.

aperture rather small; pale ash horn-colour, ornamented with darker stripes.
PFEIFFER, Monog. Helic. viv. vol. ii. p. 258.
Hab. Island of St. John, Porto Rico.

There is a peculiarity of form, as well as of colour, in this species.

Species 94. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA CURVILABRIS. Achat. testá fusiformi, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus octo, creberrime costulato-striatis, ad suturas marginatis, columellá contortá, basi subproductá et truncatá, labro medio impresso; pellucido-corneá, strigis angustis albidis obscurè notatá, labii limbo albido.

THE CURVED-LIP ACHATINA. Shell fusiform, spire acuminated, whorls eight in number, very closely sculptured with rib-like striæ, margined at the sutures, columella twisted, somewhat produced and truncated at the base; transparent horny, obscurely marked with narrow whitish streaks, edge of the lip whitish.
PFEIFFER, (Glandina,) Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 137.
Hab. Jamaica; Gosse.

Belonging to the group typified by the A. leucozonias, the shell is marked in like manner by white streaks deposited at intervals by the lip after the fashion of varices.

Fig. 95. (Mus. Cuming.)

For description of this species see Bulimus, Pl. LXX.
For Achatina, Sp. 95. see Pl. XXI.

Species 96. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA FUXCKI. Achat. testá ovato-conicá, subumbilicatá, tenui, anfractibus sex, subrotundatis, striatulis, nitidis, anfractu ultimo lirá callosá, aperturam intrante, prope medium munito, columellá lamellato-truncatá; pellucido-albá, diaphana.

FUNCK'S ACHATINA. Shell ovately conical, slightly umbilicated, thin, whorls six in number, rather rounded, very delicately striated, shining, last whorl furnished about the middle with a callous plait entering the aperture, columella flatly truncated; transparent white, diaphanous.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1847, p. 232.
Hab. Province of Merida, New Granada.

A very transparent wax-like shell, intermediate between Bulimus and Achatina; the columella, although truncated, is slightly reflected back forming a small umbilicus. On the middle of the body-whorl is a very characteristic callous ridge, entering the aperture.

Species 97. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA LAMELLATA. Achat. testá ovato-conicá, tenui, subventricosa, minutè umbilicata, anfractibus sex, hic illic sublamellato-striatis, columellá subreflexá et truncatá, lirá parvá callosá, obscurá, prope medium intrante, munitá; pellucido-albá, diaphana.

THE LAMELLATED ACHATINA. Shell ovately conic, thin, rather ventricose, minutely umbilicated, whorls six in number, here and there slightly lamellately striated; columella a little reflected and truncated, furnished with an obscure callous ridge entering near the middle; transparent white, diaphanous.
Potiez and Michaud, Gal. de Douai, p. 128. pl. 11. f. 7 and 8.
Hab. New Lima; Lattre.

This species, it will be seen, differs little from the preceding except in being rather more ventricose. The locality, to judge from analogy, is equally doubtful.

Species 98. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA CONIFERA. Achat. testá pyramidali-conicá, anfractibus octo, subangustis, rotundatis, longitudinatiter obscurè striatis, nitidis, columellá brevi, arcuatá, contortá, attenuatè truncatá, aperturá parvá; fusco-corneá.

THE CONICAL ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally conical, whorls eight in number, rather narrow, rounded, longitudinally obscurely striated, shining, columella short, arched, twisted, attenuately truncated, aperture small; brown-horny.
Ferussac, ——?
Hab. Juan Fernandez.

Distinguished by its small aperture and by the elevated growth of the spire.