CASSIS.
PLATE V.

Species 11. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS SABURON. Cass. testá ovatá, ventricosá, spirá breviusculá, apice subpapillari; anfractibus evaricosis rotundatis, transversim undique creberrimè sulcatis, margine superiori crenulatis; columellá callosá, rugis brevibus perpaucis obliquis, labro subirregulariter dentato-lirato; pallidè cinerea aut fulvescente, obscurè quinquefasciatá, fasciis indistinctè quadrato-maculatis, maculis ponè varices intensè rufo-castaneis.

The Saburon Helmet. Shell ovate, ventricose, spire rather short, apex slightly papillary; whorls destitute of varices, rounded, transversely very closely grooved throughout, crenulated at the upper margin; columella callous, with a very few short oblique wrinkles, lip somewhat irregularly dentately ridged; pale ash or light fulvous colour, obscurely five-banded, bands indistinctly square-spotted, spots behind the varices dark reddish chesnut.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 36.
Le Saburon, Adanson.
Cassidea Saburon, Bruguière.
Buccinum Saburon, Dillwyn.
Eadem. Cassis pomum, Schubert and Wagner.
Hab. Japan (on the sands); Dr. Siebold.

Mainly distinguished by its close transverse grooves and rounded form; the spots are often much obscured, excepting behind the marginal varix, where in comparison they are unusually dark.

Martini has a very excellent figure of this species (Conch. Cab. vol. 2. pl. 34. f. 350) referred to by Lamarck under the head of C. granulosa (C. inflatum), and the figure in a vignette, f. 1-2 at p. 10, of the same work to which M. Deshayes refers for C. Saburon, appears to correspond with one not hitherto described, which I propose to distinguish by the name C. pila.

Species 12. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS FLAMMEA. Cass. testá oblongo-ovatá, vix trigoná, spirá breviusculá, apice acutá; anfractibus univaricosis, longitudinaliter tenuiter plicato-rugatis, rugis medium versus ætate obsoletis, anfractuum parte superiori vix angulatis, tuberculorum seriebus tribus aut pluribus armatis, tuberculis lateraliter compressis, labrum versus obsoletioribus; columellá concaviusculá, rudè rugatá, labro externo fortiter dentato; lacteá, dorso griseo-cærulescente nebulosá, castaneo longitudinaliter flammatá, varicibus maculis grandibus nigris tinctis.

The flamed Cassis. Shell oblong-ovate, scarcely triangular, spire rather short, sharp at the apex; whorls one-varicose, longitudinally finely plicately wrinkled, the wrinkles becoming obsolete towards the middle with age, upper part of the whorls but slightly angulated, armed with three or more rows of tubercles, which are laterally compressed and more obsolete towards the lip; columella rather concave, ruddily wrinkled, outer lip strongly toothed; cream-coloured, clouded at the back with greyish blue, longitudinally flamed with chesnut, varices stained with large black blotches.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 22.
Buccinum flammeum, Linnaeus.
Cassidea flammea, Bruguière.
Hab. ----?

The peculiar oblong oval form of this species, which is of constant occurrence, fully distinguishes it from C. tuberosa, of which M. Kiener intimates his opinion that it is a variety. There is moreover a uniform variation in the sculpture, which, in the species under consideration, rather assumes the nature of plicated wrinkles; the tubercles are more numerous, smaller, and more compressed.