CASSIS.
PLATE VII.
Species 15. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS VIBEX. Cass. testá elongato-ovatá, basi peculiäriter effusá, spirá subacuminatá; anfractibus evaricosis, convexis, subobliquè convolutis, lævigatis, politis, columellá incrassatá, basi uniplicatá, labro basi quadrispinoso; carneo-cinerascente, obscurè fasciatá, flammis fulvescentibus longitudinaliter pictá, lineisque indistinctè fusco-punctatis cingulatá; columellá eburneá, labro castaneo intensè maculato.
THE STRIPED HELMET. Shell elongately ovate, peculiarly effused at the base, spire somewhat acuminated; whorls destitute of varices, convex, somewhat obliquely convoluted, smooth, polished, columella thickened, one-plaited at the base, lip four-spined at the base; fleshy ash-colour, obscurely banded, painted longitudinally with light fulvous flames and encircled with indistinctly brown-dotted lines; columella ivory-white, lip intensely spotted with chesnut.
LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 38.
Buccinum vibex, Linnaeus.
Cassidea vibex, Bruguière.
Variety β. (Fig. 15, a.)
Testa minor, valdè incrassata, anfractibus supernè nodosis, nodis in plicis sèpè descendentibus.
Shell smaller, very much thickened, with the whorls noduled round the upper part, nodules frequently descending in folds.
Buccinum erinaceus, Linnaeus.
Buccinum nodulosum, Gmelin.
Buccinum biarmatum, Dillwyn.
Cassidea erinaceus, Bruguière.
Cassis erinaceus, Lamarck.
Hab. Philippine and Pacific Islands; Cuming.
The species C. vibex and torquata were confounded indiscriminately by Linnaeus, Lamarck, and others, to judge by the reference made to Martini's figures, the smooth specimens being set apart under the specific title of vibex, the noduled variety under that of erinaceus; it will, however, be seen that there are two very distinct species, both equally distinguished in having the upper portion of the whorls sometimes rounded, sometimes strongly noduled or plicately tubercled. The name erinaceus is therefore suppressed, as being founded on the thickened noduled variety of either species, and that which had not been recognised is named C. torquata.
Species 16. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS RECURVIROSTRUM. Cass. testá ovatá, tenuiculá, spirá subacuminatá, anfractibus evaricosis, lævibus, supernè concavo-declivibus, plicis tenuibus interdum obsoletis e suturis descendentibus; columellá subampliter uniplicatá et obtusè granosá, labro subtiliter dentato-lirato; pallide fulvo-spadiceá, maculis parvis rufescente-fuscis subquadratis distantibus seriatim notatá.
THE RECURVED-BEAK HELMET. Shell ovate, rather thin, spire somewhat acuminated, whorls destitute of varices, smooth, concavely slanting round the upper part, with thin plaits, sometimes obsolete, descending from the sutures; columella somewhat largely one-plaited and obtusely grained, lip finely dentately ridged; light fulvous bay, marked with rows of small rather square distant reddish brown spots.
Buccinum recurvirostrum, Wood, Index Test. pl. 22. f. 30.
Hab. Raines' Island, Torres Straits; Capt. Ince.
M. Kiener figures this shell as the young of C. inflata (C. granulosa, Lamarck), from which, it is scarcely necessary to add, it is perfectly distinct. The shell here represented, from Mr. Cuming's collection, is one of mature growth; and I take it to be the Buccinum recurvirostrum of Wood, founded on Lister's figure, Hist. Conch. t. 1016. f. 75. It may be observed that this species is from New Holland, whilst the C. inflata is a native of the West Indies.
Species 17. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS FIMBRIATA. Cass. testá oblongo-ovatá, plerumque tenuiculá, spirá subproductá, apice papillari, anfractibus univaricosis, longitudinaliter irregulariter tenui-plicatis, striis transversis prope apicem basinque decussatis, parte superiori dorsali cingulis nodosis tribus armatá, nodis posticè compressis; columellá arcuatá, leviter rugatá, labro externo eix obsoletè dentato; pallide lacteá, fasciis sex fulvescentibus, lineisque fuscis interruptis, octo aut pluribus cingulatá, varicibus fusco-maculatis.