CASSIS.
PLATE IX.

Species 21. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS PILA. Cass. testá subgloboso-ovatâ, spirá breviusculâ, apice acutâ; anfractibus evaricosis, transversim undique creberrimè inciso-striatis; columellâ densè plicato-liratâ, labro dentato-lirato; fulvo-albicante, maculis numerosis parvis quadratis rufo-fuscis seriatim pictâ.

THE BALL HELMET. Shell somewhat globosely ovate, spire rather short, sharp at the apex; whorls destitute of varices, very closely encircled throughout with engraved striæ; columella thickly plicately ridged, lip dentately ridged; fulvous white, painted with rows of numerous small square red-brown spots.
Hab. China.

A shell of rather light growth, globose in form, painted with neatly defined distant spots.

Species 22. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Hanley. Fig. c. Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS INFLATA. Cass. testá subgloboso-ovatâ, tenuiculâ, ventricosissimâ, spirâ acutâ; anfractibus rotundatis, inflatis, laevigatis, transversim obsoletè sulcatis, apicem versus reticulatè striatis; columellâ leviter plicatâ et conspicuè granosâ, labro reflexo, intus acutè brevilirato; carulescente-albidâ, fasciis quinque macularum rufo-fuscescentium cingulatâ, maculis subquadratis, irregulariter interruptis.

THE INFLATED HELMET. Shell somewhat globosely ovate, rather thin, extremely ventricose, spire sharp; whorls rounded, inflated, smooth, transversely obsoletely grooved, reticulately striated towards the apex; columella smoothly plicated and conspicuously granose, lip reflected, sharply shortly ridged within; bluish white, encircled by five bands of somewhat square and irregularly interrupted reddish-brown spots.

Variety β (Fig. a and b. Mus. Hanley.)
Testa molto minor, anfractibus supernè crebrè nodosis, non-nullis univaricosis.
Shell much smaller, with the whorls closely noduled round the upper part, some of them distinguished by a varix.
Buccinum inflatum, Shaw, Nat. Misc. v. 22. pl. 959.
Buccinum tessellatum, Chemnitz.
Cassidea granulosa, Bruguière.
Cassis granulosa, Lamarck.
Hab. Barbados.

The first authentic illustration of this species occurs in Shaw's Naturalist's Miscellany, 1789, with the name Buccinum inflatum. Ten years subsequently an equally characteristic figure of it was published by Chemnitz in his last volume of the Conchylien Cabinet under the title Buccinum cassideum tessellatum. These, however, were overlooked by Bruguière and Lamarck, who introduced the species with the name granulosa, and referred for illustration to Martini's figures, Conch. Cab. v. 2. f. 344—5 and 350-52, which also comprehend the C. abbreviata and saburon. Kiener, following in the steps of his predecessors in adopting the name granulosa, added much to the confusion by representing the C. recurvirostrum to be the young of it, and that both were merely varieties of the C. sulcosa of the Mediterranean, arising out of differences of age or sex. It does not appear that this crotchet of M. Kiener's was noticed in the new edition of Lamarck, and M. Deshayes errs in stating that the figures above alluded to in Martini, "can only be referred to this species." The shell Fig. 344-5 is without doubt a C. inflata, though presenting the unusual feature of a strong lateral varix, but fig. 350, is a variety of C. saburon, distinguished by the dark spots behind the reflected lip, and the shell, Fig. 351—2 is a pale variety of Lamarck's C. abbreviata.

The coronated variety of C. inflatum is very uniform and I am not aware that it exceeds the size of the specimen here figured.

Species 23. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS JAPONICA. Cass. testá ovatâ, tenuiculâ, ventricosa, inflatâ, spirâ breviusculâ, acutâ; anfractibus supernè rotundatis, transversim acutè sulcatis, sulcis supremis cæteris latioribus, striis subtilibus elevatiusculis longitudinalibus obliquis decussatis; columellâ plicato-rugatâ, rugis partim obsoletis, interruptis et obscurè granulatis; labro dentato-lirato; albidâ, maculis oblongo-quadratis inæqualibus castaneo-rufis quinquefasciatis.

THE JAPAN HELMET. Shell ovate, rather thin, ventricose, inflated, spire rather short, sharp; whorls rounded at the upper part, transversely sharply grooved, uppermost grooves broader than the rest, decussated with very fine slightly elevated longitudinal oblique striae; columella plicately wrinkled, wrinkles partially obsolete, interrupted and obscurely granulated; lip dentately toothed; whitish, encircled