CASSIS.
PLATE X.
Species 25. (Fig. a. Mus. Cuming.
Fig. b. Mus. Saul.)
CASSIS TURGIDA. Cass. testá ovalá, tenuiculá, ventricosa, spirá subacuminatá, anfractibus evaricosis, lavibus, turgidis, supernè rotundatis; columellá valdè contortá, basi uniplicatá, labro undique dentato-spinoso; lacteá, pallidè castaneo longitudinaliter flammata, labro intensè castaneo maculato.
THE SWOLLEN HELMET. Shell ovate, rather thin, ventricose, spire somewhat acuminated, whorls destitute of varices, smooth, swollen, rounded at the upper part; columella much twisted, one-plaited at the base, lip dentately spinous throughout; cream-coloured, longitudinally flamed with pale chesnut, lip spotted with very dark chesnut.
Hab. Boljoon, Island of Zebu, Philippines (on sand banks); Cuming.
A fine species belonging to the same group as C. achatina, vibex, and torquata; the whorls are distinguished for their swollen rotundity, and the columella is remarkably twisted. The lip is dentately spinous throughout. I have not seen any noduled variety of this species.
Species 26. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS UNDATA. Cass. testá ovatá, gibbosiusculá, spirá acuminatá, apice acutá; anfractibus univaricosis, lavibus, basi conspicuè sulcatis, supernè depressiusculis et striatis, apicem versus granuloso-decussatis; columellá plicatá et interruptè rugatá, medio tuberculata, labro fortissimè dentato-lirato, liris elongatis; caruleo-albicante, fulvescente-fusco longitudinaliter striatá.
THE WAVED HELMET. Shell ovate, rather gibbous, spire acuminated, sharp at the apex; whorls one-varicose, smooth, conspicuously grooved at the base, a little depressed and striated round the upper part, granulously decussated towards the apex; columella plicated and interruptedly wrinkled, tuberculated in the middle, lip very strongly dentately ridged, ridges elongated; bluish-white, longitudinally streaked with fulvous brown.
DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 28, note.
Cassis laevis undata, Martini.
Buccinum striatum, Gmelin.
Cassidea areola, var., Bruguière.
Cassis zebra, Lamarck.
Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.
Although the patterns of this species and the C. areola are united in the C. decussata, they are not varieties of the same as assumed by Bruguière and Kiener. The C. areola is a narrower and more gibbous shell than the C. undata, which is eminently distinguished from the former by the strong linear grooves around the base. The dentate ridges on the outer lip are longer and more strongly developed.
Species 27. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS PLICATA. Cass. testá subelongato-ovatá, peculiariter compressá, spirá subacuminatá, apice acutá; anfractibus univaricosis, transversim subtilissimè lineari-sulcatis, supernè concavo-declivibus, margine noduloso-crenatis, infra subtiliter bi-seriatim gemmatis, ad angulum conspicuè muricato-nodosis, nodis in plicis prominulis subarcuatis descendentibus; columellá latè expansá, plicato-rugatis, rugis brevibus, labro acutè dentato-liratis, basi obsoletè trispinoso; livido-albicante, fulvescente longitudinaliter undulatè strigatá, varicibus fusco-maculatis, columellá labroque albis, aperturæ fauce fulvo-castaneá.
THE PLICATED HELMET. Shell somewhat elongately ovate, peculiarly compressed, spire somewhat acuminated, sharp at the apex; whorls one-varicose, transversely finely linearly grooved, concavely slanting at the upper part, nodulously crenated at the margin, encircled by two finely beaded ridges beneath, conspicuously prickly noduled at the angle, nodules descending in prominent slightly curved plaits; columella widely expanded, plicately wrinkled, wrinkles short, lip sharply dentately ridged, obsoletely three-spinose at the base; livid-white, longitudinally undulately streaked with pale fulvous-colour, varices spotted with brown, lip and columella whitish, interior of the aperture fulvous chesnut.
DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 26, note.
Buccinum plicatum, Linnaeus.
Buccinum fimbria, Gmelin.
Cassis plicaria, Lamarck.
Hab. Moluccas.
We are indebted to M. Deshayes for having identified Lamarck's Cassis plicaria with the Buccinum plicatum of