Species 31. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS CORONULATA. Cass. testá suboblongo-ovatá, spirá subacuminatá, apice acutá; anfractibus lavigatis, niti-dis, apicem versus decussatis, supernè depresso-concavis, ad angulum tenuè muricato-nodosis, anfractu ultimo univaricoso; columellá expansá, undulatim plicato-rugatá, labro externo acutè dentato-lirato, basi obsoletè tri-spinoso; livido-albicante, fasciis transversis quinque latiusculis pallidè fuscescentibus, fasciis pallidioribus longitudinalibus undatis decussatis, nitidè pictá, fasciis saturatioribus pone varices, labro citrino-fulvescente tessellato.

THE CORONATED HELMET. Shell somewhat oblong-ovate, spire somewhat acuminated, sharp at the apex; whorls smooth, shining, decussated towards the apex, depressly concave round the upper part, finely prickly noduled at the angle, last whorl one-varicose; columella expanded, undulately plicately wrinkled, outer lip sharply dentately ridged, obsoletely trispinose at the base; livid white, neatly painted with five rather broad transverse pale fulvous bands, decussated with paler longitudinal waved bands, bands darker behind the varices, lip tessellated with citron fulvous brown.

SOWERBY, Tankerville Catalogue, App. p. xx.
Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

This is certainly not the young of Cassis glauca, as stated by M. Kiener; whether it should be regarded as a variety of that species may remain a matter of opinion, but I believe it to be distinct. Though not of very common occurrence it is not rare, and there appears to be no nearer approximation between the species than is represented by the accompanying figures. The C. coronulata is of a more oblong-oval form and perfectly smooth, without the least indication of those curious flattened indentations which characterize the C. glauca; the tessellated painting is peculiar and constant, and the spinous processes at the base of the lip are but three in number and very obscure.

Species 32. (Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS EXARATA. Cass. testá ovatá, spirá subacuminatá, apice acutá; anfractibus univaricosis, lavibus, transversim regulariter acutè sulcatis, supernè declivibus, spiraliter costatis, costis creberrimè nodoso-gemmatis; columellá latè concavo-expansa, profuse et subtiliter plicato-rugatá, labro externo fortiter dentato-lirato; eburneá, maculis quadratis distantibus pallidè fulvescentibus tessellatá.

THE PLOUGHED HELMET. Shell ovate, spire somewhat acuminated, sharp at the apex, whorls one-varicose, smooth, transversely regularly sharply grooved, slanting at the upper part, spirally ribbed, ribs very closely beaded; columella broadly concavely expanded, profusely and very finely plicately wrinkled, outer lip strongly dentately ridged; ivory white, tessellated with distant pale fulvous square spots.
Hab. —— ?

A new and very distinct species allied in form to the C. glauca and coronulata. Its chief peculiarities consist in the surface being encircled with narrow equi-distant grooves, and in the spire being strongly beaded. The columella is very widely expanded, and profusely sculptured with fine divaricating wrinkles.

Species 33. (Mus. Hudson.)
CASSIS GLAUCA. Cass. testá ovatá, turgidá, spirá sub-acuminatá, apice acutá; anfractibus lavigatis, undique peculiariter indentatis, basi superficialiter sulcatis, supernè angulatis, ad angulum acutè muricato-nodulosis, apicem versus decussatis, anfractu ultimo univaricoso; columellá expansá, exiliter plicato-rugatá, labro externo dentato-lirato, basi quadrispinoso; livido-glaucá, indistinctè fasciátá, labris vivide fulvescente-citrinis, aperture fauce purpureo-castaneá.

THE GLAUCOUS HELMET. Shell ovate, swollen, spire somewhat acuminated, sharp at the apex, whorls smooth, everywhere peculiarly indented, superficially grooved at the base, angulated round the upper part, sharply prickly noduled at the angle, decussated towards the apex, last whorl one-varicose; columella expanded, faintly plicately wrinkled, outer lip dentately ridged, four-spined at the base; livid glaucous colour, indistinctly banded, lips bright fulvous citron colour, interior of the aperture purple-chesnut.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol.x. p.24.
Buccinum glaucum, Linnaeus.
Cassidea glauca, Bruguière.
Bezoardica vulgaris, Schumacher.
Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

A species of common occurrence, exhibiting little variation of colour or sculpture.