TURRITELLA.

PLATE VI.

Species 22. (Mus. Walton.)
TURRITELLA EXOLETA. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, crassiusculá, ad basin obtuse angulatá, anfractibus sedecim ad septemdecim, supernè et infernè rudè costatis, medio concavis, inaequaliter excavatis, septis tenuibus lamelliformibus interdum longitudinaliter imbricatis, costá inferiori duplici, aperturæ margine medio sinuato; sordidè cereo-albá, rufo-aurantio obscurè flammata, costis maculatis.

THE DECAYED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, rather thick, obtusely angled at the base, whorls sixteen to seventeen in number, rudely ribbed above and below, concave in the middle, unevenly excavated, sometimes longitudinally imbricated with thin lamelliform septa, lower rib duplex, margin of the aperture sinuated in the middle; dull waxen white, obscurely flamed with orange-brown, ribs spotted with the same.

Turbo exoletus, Linnaeus, Gmelin's edit. p. 3607.
Turbo torcularis, Born.
Hab. Martinique, Guinea; Kiener.

The chief peculiarity of this remarkable species consists in the whorls being rudely excavated, and imbricated across the hollow at frequent intervals with thin lamelliform septa. Specimens, however, are more commonly seen without the septa; not merely worn, but in which they apparently never existed.

The shell in the Linnaean collection, numbered to refer to the 'Systema,' is a worn T. bicingulata, and to that species the present has been assigned by Dillwyn. I believe, however, that Linnaeus's description refers to the shell under consideration, and the figure of Bonani, to which he refers, goes far to support that opinion.

Species 23. (Mus. Cuming.)
TURRITELLA CINGULATA. Turr. testá pyramidalis-turritá, crassá, subponderosa, anfractibus ad septemdecim, planulatis, spiraliter fortiter tricostatis, costis planatis, granoso-crenatis; ferrugineo-albidá, costis castaneo-nigris.

THE GIRDLED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally turreted, thick, rather ponderous, whorls about seventeen in number, rather flattened, spirally strongly three-ribbed, ribs flattened and granosely crenated; rusty white, ribs chestnut-black.

Sowerby, Tankerville Catalogue, App. p. xiii.
Turritella tricarinala, King.

Hab. Valparaiso (in coarse gravel at the depth of six fathoms); Cuming.

Mr. Cuming speaks of this very characteristic species as being very abundant at Valparaiso, having frequently brought up two bushels of living specimens at a time, mingled with coarse gravel.

Species 24. (Mus. Cuming.)
TURRITELLA FLAMMULATA. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, anfractibus octodecim, perpaucis primis bicostatis, cæteris rotundatis, septem-costatis, costis medianis latiusculis, cæteris utrinque gradatim angustioribus; fulvescente-albá, roseo tinctá, purpureo-fusco punctatá et marmoratá, basi roseá.

THE FLAMED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, whorls eighteen in number, the few first two-ribbed, the rest rounded, seven-ribbed, middle ribs rather broad, the remainder on either side gradually narrower; fulvous-white, stained with rose, dotted and marbled with purple-brown, base rose.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 7. pl. 5. f. 1.
Le Ligar, Adanson.
Turritella Ligar, Deshayes.
Hab. Muscat, Red Sea.

The shell here represented from the above-mentioned locality is, no doubt, Le Ligar of Adanson, a name which cannot correctly be adopted in the Latin. It will be observed that both the sculpture and colouring of the species are peculiar.

Species 25. (Mus. Belcher.)
TURRITELLA CEREA. Turr. testá elongato-turritá, crassiusculá, anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, supernè subde~clivibus, infernè tumidiusculis, spiraliter sexcarinatis, carinis angustis, acutis, aperturam versus evanidis; fulvescente-albá, anfractuum parte superiori fulvo-rufescente tinctá.

THE WAXEN TURRITELLA. Shell elongately turreted, rather thick, whorls eighteen to twenty in number, somewhat inclined round the upper part, rather swollen round the lower, spirally six-keeled, keels narrow, sharp, fading towards the aperture; fulvous white, upper portion of the whorls tinged with fulvous-red.

Hab. — ?