TURRITELLA.
PLATE IX.

Species 42. (Mus. Brit.)
TURRITELLA TASMANICA. Turr. testá angusto-acuminatá, solidiusculá, anfractibus quindecim, planiusculis, ad marginem inferioriem liratis, liris duabus striisque intermediis supra cingulatis, interstitiis striis minutis elevatis obliquis creberrimè decussatis; sordidè albá.
THE TASMANIAN TURRITELLA. Shell narrowly acuminated, rather solid, whorls fifteen in number, rather flattened, ridged at the lower edge, encircled with two ridges and intermediate striae above, interstices very closely decussated with minute oblique raised striae; dead white.
Hab. Van Dieman's Land; Dr. Sinclair.

The only specimen of this, in the British Museum, is in bad condition and colourless, but affords strong characters for the foundation of the species. It approximates nearest to the T. clathrata in which the spiral ridges are more strongly and conspicuously developed, and the interstices smooth.

Species 43. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)
TURRITELLA TRIPLECTA. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, crassiusculá, anfractibus quindecim, spiraliter striatis, et tricostatis, costis planulatis, medianá multo majore, superiori parvá, duplicatá, apicem versus interdum obsoletá; nunc albidá, castaneo variegatá et flammatá, nunc castaneá, unicolore.
THE THREE-PLAITED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, rather thick, whorls fifteen in number, spirally striated, and three-ribbed, ribs flattened, the middle rib much the largest, the upper one small, duplicate, and sometimes obsolete towards the apex; whitish, variegated and flamed with chestnut, sometimes entirely chestnut.
STUDER, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. p. 190.
Hab. Mediterranean and West Coast of Africa.

The specimens here figured of this species are from the mouth of the Gambia; in the Mediterranean it is of somewhat smaller dimensions and of lighter growth.

Species 44. (Mus. Brit.)
TURRITELLA NIVEA. Turr. testá elongato-turritá, crassiusculá, anfractibus viginti, supernè contractis, deinde tumidiusculis, transversim septem-costatis, costis interstitiisque striatis, æqualibus, striis minutis incrementi creberrimè decussatis, anfractibus perpaucis primis bicarinatis, carinis cito evanidis; niveá.
THE SNOW-WHITE TURRITELLA. Shell elongately turreted, rather thick, whorls twenty in number, contracted round the upper part, then rather swollen, transversely seven-ribbed, ribs and interstices striated, equal, very closely decussated with minute lines of increase, first few whorls two-keeled, keels quickly disappearing; snowy-white.
GRAY, MSS. British Museum.
Hab. East Coast of Africa; Capt. Owen, R.N.

A genuine snow-white species, rather closely encircled with neat ridges of equal width with the interstices.

Species 45. (Mus. Brit.)
TURRITELLA GUNNII. Turr. testá elongato-acuminatá, solidiusculá, angustá, anfractibus octodecim, plano-concavis, marginibus tumidiusculis, medio obscurè et sub-irregulariter liratis et striatis, suturis excavatis; albidá, flammis undulatis pallidè fulvescente-fuscis oblique pictá, basi pallidè roseá.
GUNN'S TURRITELLA. Shell elongately acuminated, rather solid, narrow, whorls eighteen in number, flatly concave, margins rather swollen, obscurely and somewhat irregularly ridged and striated in the middle, sutures excavated; whitish, obliquely painted with light fulvous-brown waved flames, base pinkish.
Hab. Van Dieman's Land; Gunn.

An interesting new species collected by Mr. Ronald Gunn, an eminent naturalist of Hobart Town. It is a narrow, sharply acuminated shell, with the whorls flatly concave, and margined at the edges so as to give an excavated appearance to the sutures.

Species 46. (Mus. Belcher.)
TURRITELLA AQUILA. Turr. testá pyramidali-turritá, anfractibus quatuordecm aut quindecim, supernè concavo-declivibus, deinde subobscurè latè bicostatis, undique con-