TURRITELLA.

PLATE X.

Species 16. (Mus. Banks).

TURRITELLA CONSTRICTA. Turr. testá turritâ, suturis profundis, anfractibus duodecim ad quatuordecim, bicarinatis, carinis remotè distantibus, interstitio concavo; sordidè alba.

THE TIED TURRITELLA. Shell turreted, sutures deep, whorls twelve to fourteen in number, two-keeled, keels widely distant, the interstice being concave; dead white.

Hab. —— ?

Three specimens of this species, not hitherto described, are preserved in the Banksian collection of the Linnaean Society.

Species 47. (Mus. Hanley.)

TURRITELLA FASCIALIS. Turr. testá lanceolato-acuminatâ, gracillimâ, anfractibus octodecim, convexis, exiliter quadriliratis, suturis subcontractis; lutescente, anfractuum parte superiori rubido-fasciatâ.

THE BANDED TURRITELLA. Shell lanceolately acuminated, very slender, whorls eighteen in number, convex, faintly four-ridged, sutures a little contracted; yellowish, upper part of the whorls banded with dull red.

MENKE, —— ?
Hab. Bay of Montija, Central America (in coarse sand at the depth of seven fathoms); Cuming.

Distinguished by its slender erect form and ruddy band beneath the sutures.

Species 48. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA FASTIGIATA. Turr. testá gracillimo-subulatâ, tenuiculâ, anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, supernè contractis, declivibus, deinde rotundatis, undique subtilissimè liratis et striatis, apicem versus bicarinatis; violaceo alboque pallidè variegatâ, strigis fuscescentibus obliquis, liris obscure fusco punctatis vel articulatis.

THE MINARET TURRITELLA. Shell very slenderly subulate, rather thin, whorls eighteen to twenty in number, contracted round the upper part, slanting, then rounded, very finely ridged and striated, two-keeled towards the apex; variegated with pale violet and white, and oblique brownish streaks, ridges dotted or articulated with light brown.

ADAMS and REEVE, Moll. Voy. Samarang.
Hab. China Seas; Belcher.

The oblique clouded streaks of painting are characteristic in this species.

Species 49. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA EROSA. Turr. testá turritâ, anfractibus decem ad duodecim, subplano-convexis, spiraliter quadrisulcatis, sulcis angustis, subprofundis; fuscescente, infra suturas albicante.

THE ERODED TURRITELLA. Shell turreted, whorls ten to twelve in number, rather flatly convex, spirally four-grooved, grooves narrow, rather deep; light brown, whitish beneath the sutures.

COUTHOUY, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. ii. p. 103. pl. 3. f. 1.
Hab. Massachusetts Bay, United States (found in stomachs of fishes); Gould, De Kay.

Generally more or less eroded, the apex being semi-transparent and somewhat papillary.

Species 50. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA MONILIFERA. Turr. testá acuminato-pyramidalì, basi depresso-concavâ, et acutè angulatâ, anfractibus quindecim, carinâ latiusculâ infra suturas medio concavis, deinde bi-liratis; rosaceo-albâ, carinâ punctis distantibus obliquis rufescente-fuscis ornata.

THE NECKLACE TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately pyramidal, depressly concave and sharply angled at the base, whorls fifteen in number, with a broad keel beneath the sutures, concave in the middle, then two-ridged; pinkish white, keel ornamented with distant oblique red-brown dots.

ADAMS and REEVE, Moll. Voy. Samarang.
Hab. China Seas; Belcher.

The only painting in this species, beyond its delicate violet-pink hue, consists in the necklace-like row of red-brown dots upon the keel.