MESALIA.

PLATE I.

Genus MESALIA, Gray.

Testa acuminato-turrita, basi rotundata, columellâ plano-contortâ, recedente, aperturâ margine infra columellam leviter sinuato et reflexo.
Shell acuminately turreted, rounded at the base, columella flatly twisted, receding, margin of the aperture below the columella sinuated and reflected.

The flattened receding structure of the columella of the well-known Senegal Turritella (T. brevialis, Lamarck), Le Mesal of Adanson, induced Mr. Gray to found a genus for its reception with the name Mesalia, which it is desirable should be adopted.

It is materially distinguished in this respect from the rest of the Turritellae, excepting the little Greenland T. lactea of Möller, also a Mesalia; and to these may be added a species (M. Melanioides) from the Cumingian collection, in which the typical character of the genus is yet more strongly developed, and which Mr. Cuming had already put aside in his cabinet as a new form.

Species 1. (Mus. Brit.)

MESALIA LACTEA. Mes. testâ turrita, anfractibus tredecim, longitudinatiter sub-obliquè et obesè plicato-costatis, lineis impressis inter costas, lirâ angustâ infernè funiculatis, aperturâ parvâ; opaco-albâ.

The milk-white Mesalia. Shell turreted, whorls thirteen in number, longitudinally rather obliquely and stoutly plicately ribbed, with impressed lines in the interstices, corded round the lower part with a narrow ridge, aperture small; opake-white.

Turritella lactea, Möller, Index Moll. Grænlandiæ, p. 9.
Hab. Greenland.

Möller describes this shell as being a diaphanous white, but the specimens in the British Museum are rather opake.

Species 2. (Fig. 2 a, b, Mus. Hanley; and Pl. V. Fig. 16 a, b, of Turritella, Mus. Cuming.)

MESALIA BREVIALIS. Mes. testâ subabbreviato-turrita, crassa, ponderosa, anfractibus quindecim, rotundatis, supernè obscurè canaliculatis, spiraliter quinqueliratis, liris superioribus fortioribus, inferioribus interdum obsoletis, interstitiis undique subtilissimè et creberrimè striatis, columellâ plano-contortâ, recedente, margine subreflexo; alba, vel cinereo-alba, vel sordidè olivaceâ, interdum strigis fuscescentibus indistinctè pallidè tinctâ.

The short Mesalia. Shell somewhat abbreviately turreted, thick, ponderous, whorls fifteen in number, rounded, obscurely channelled round the upper part, spirally five-ridged, upper ridges stronger, lower sometimes obsolete, interstices very finely and closely striated throughout, columella flatly twisted, receding and a little reflected at the edge; white, or ashy-white, or dirty olive, sometimes faintly stained with brownish streaks.

Turritella brevialis, Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. ix. p. 256.
Le Mesal, Adanson.
Turritella Mesal, Deshayes.
Mesalia sulcata, Gray.
Eadem var. Turritella varia, Kiener.
Hab. West Coast of Africa.

An extremely variable species in size and general aspect, but always distinctly characterized throughout by its one idea of sculpture. Each whorl is encircled by nine thread-like ridges, five of which remain exposed to view; of these the two uppermost are more prominently developed than the rest and form a slight channel. The interstices are sculptured throughout with exceedingly fine, close-set, sharply defined striae. In some specimens the shell is of a dark dirty olive colour and the ridges lighter, others are of a light stone colour without any distinction of tone in the ridges. Of the smaller varieties one is of a dark lead colour, another snowy white and more elongated, with the ridges almost obsolete; and a third equally white with the ridges like so many fine opake threads.

Lamarck, when first describing this species according to the present system of nomenclature, apparently from a worn specimen, did not recognise in it Le Mesal of Adanson (Voyage en Sénégal, p. 159. pl. 10. f. 7); and M. Deshayes was unable to identify Turritella brevialis in his edition of the 'Animaux sans vertèbres' for want of access to the Lamarckian collection, reserved by M. Kiener for the use of his 'Iconographie des coquilles vivantes;' in which work the identification of T. brevialis with Adanson's Mesal has been recently made known.

Unacquainted with Lamarck's T. brevialis, from his not referring to Adanson's figure, M. Deshayes described Le Mesal anew. It is much to be regretted that the learned editor of the 'Anim. sans vert.' was not allowed.