CASSIDARIA.

PLATE I.

Genus CASSIDARIA, Lamarck.

Testa ovoidea, ventricosa, ad basin attenuata, in canalem curvum, posticè ascendentem, desinens, aperturá longitudinali, labro columellari lævi, latissimè effuso, labro externo reflexo, intus crenato. Operculum corneum.

Shell ovoid, ventricose, attenuated at the base, ending in a posteriorly ascending recurved canal, aperture longitudinal, columellar lip smooth, very widely effused, outer lip reflected, crenated within. Operculum horny.

The genus Cassidaria is one of the very few to which no species have been added since the time of Lamarck. It is, indeed, reduced within narrower limits; for whilst, on the one hand, the researches of Cuming, Quoy, Belcher, D'Orbigny and others, compassing the four quarters of the globe, have failed to discover any new species; the Lamarckian genus has been reduced, on the other hand, by the distribution of two to form the genus Oniscia, and of another to the genus Triton. Three recent species only remain to the genus, and it is a matter of opinion amongst authors whether two of these, both inhabiting the shores of the Mediterranean, are not varieties of the same specific type.

The Cassidaria differs from Cassis, to which it is most nearly allied, by its oval inflated growth, projecting spire, and effused aperture, ending in a slightly recurved canal.

The locality of the third species is not known.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIDARIA TYRRHENA. Cass. testá subpyriformi-ovatâ, supernè ventricosa, anfractibus liris regularibus undique crebrè funiculatis, ultimo supernè angulato, ad angulum compressè nodoso, supra exiliter obliquè plicato, aperturá elongato-oblongâ, labris obsoletè crenatis; fulvescente-spadiceâ, aperturâ albâ.

The Tuscan Cassidaria. Shell somewhat pyramidally ovate, ventricose round the upper part, whorls closely corded throughout with regular ridges, last whorl angled at the upper part, compressly noduled at the angle, faintly obliquely plicated above, aperture elongately oblong, lips obsoletely crenulated; light fulvous bay, aperture white.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. vii. p. 8. Buccinum Tyrrhenum, Chemnitz.

Cassidea Tyrrhena, Bruguière.
Buccinum echinophorum, var. Gmelin.
Buccinum ochroleucum, Gmelin.
Cassidaria echinophora, Deshayes.

Hab. Mediterranean.

Dr. Philippi and M. Deshayes are of opinion that this shell, of which there is an accurate representation in Chemnitz 'Conchylien Cabinet,' vol. x. p. 153. f. 1461-2, is a smooth variety of the well-known C. echinophora which follows. It is remarkably distinguished by its angular pyriform growth, and I have not seen any specimen which may be said to represent a state intermediate between this and the commoner form, of which specimens with few or no nodules are frequently mistaken for it.

Species 2. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIDARIA ECHINOPHORA. Cass. testá oviformi, vel globoso-ovatâ, transversim medio costatâ, supra et infra tenuiliratâ, costis planulatis, plus minusve nodosis, lirâ parvâ intermedia, labro externo subincrassato, intus crenato; fulvescente-albâ, ferrugineo-fusco plus minusve tinctâ.

The prickly Cassidaria. Shell egg-shaped or globose ovate, transversely ribbed in the middle, finely ridged above and below, ribs rather flattened, more or less nodose, with a small intermediate ridge, outer lip somewhat thickened, crenated within; light fulvous white, more or less stained with rusty brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 7.
Buccinum echinophorum, Linnaeus.
Cassidea echinophora, Bruguière.
Echinora tuberculosa, Schumacher.
Buccinum strigosum, Gmelin.
Buccinum nodosum, Dillwyn.
Cassidaria Tyrrhena, var., Philippi.

Hab. Mediterranean.

The large noduled specimen represented at Fig. 2 b, sufficiently shows that the growth of this species is extremely variable; still, I have not observed in any variety the peculiar angulated pear-shape which distinguishes the C. Tyrrhena.

Species 3. (Mus. Brit.)

CASSIDARIA STRIATA. Cass. testá subpyriformi-ovatâ,