ONISCIA.—PLATF I.

encircled throughout with papillary tubercles, with an obscure ridge intervening, columellar lip broadly expanded, granules very irregular, outer lip thickly reflected, furnished with short dentiform ridges; whitish, sparingly dotted, and, behind the lip, three-spotted with orange-brown, lips light purple-pink, apex red.

ADAMS and REEVE, Zool. Voy. Samarang, Moll. pl. 5. fig 3, a and b.
Hab. Sooloo Archipelago (outside a coral reef near the city of Sooloo, in sandy mud at the depth of from sixteen to twenty fathoms); Belcher.

The surface of this very characteristic species, collected by Captain Sir Edward Belcher during the voyage of the Samarang, is covered with papillary tubercles in rows of about ten, the same number longitudinally as transversely. The columellar and outer lips are delicately enamelled of a livid purplish pink colour.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

ONISCIA CANCELLOATA. Onisc. testá oblongo-ovatá, basi attenuatá, plus minusve pyriformi, spirá elevatiusculá, acutá, anfractibus supernè rotundatis, longitudinaliter compressè plicatis, costis numerosis angustis crenulatis transversim cancellatis, costis ad juncturas squamatis, labro columellari fortiter granulato, externo fortiter dentato; albidá aut fuscescente-albâ, fusco trifasciata.

THE CANCELLOATED ONISCIA. Shell oblong-ovate, attenuated at the base, more or less pear-shaped, spire rather elevated, sharp, whorls rounded at the upper part, longitudinally compressly plicated, cancellated transversly with numerous narrow crenulated ribs, ribs squamate at the crossing, columellar lip strongly granulated, outer lip strongly toothed; whitish or brownish white, encircled with three brown bands.

SOWERBY, Genera of Shells, Oniscia, f. 1 to 3.
Cassidaria cancellata, Kiener (not of Lamarck).
Hab. China Seas.

According to the testimony of M. Deshayes, the fossil Cassidaria cancellata of Lamarck is a different species from this, with which it has been usually identified.

Species 5. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

ONISCIA TUBERCULOSA. Onisc. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, crassá, spirá nunc convexá, nunc depresso-planá, apice acntè mucronatá, anfractibus quinquecostatis, costis subdistantibus, tuberculatis, interstitiis subtiliter liratis, labro columellari exiliter granulato, externo medio coarctato, intus denticulato; intensè nigrá, irregulariter albipunctatá, aperturæ sauce albá, interdum vivide crocea.

THE TUBERCLED ONISCIA. Shell cylindrically oblong, thick, spire sometimes convex, sometimes depressly flattened, pointed at the apex, whorls five-ribbed, ribs rather distant, tuberculated, interstices finely ridged, columellar lip faintly granulated, outer lip contracted in the middle, denticulated within; deep black, dotted irregularly with white, interior of the aperture white, sometimes bright saffron.

SOWERBY, Genera of Shells, Oniscia, p. 2. Reeve, Conch. Syst. vol. ii. p. 211, pl. 253, f. 2 to 4.
Hab. Fig. a. Gallapagos Island (in clefts of rocks at low water); Cuming. Fig. 2 b, Gulf of California.

Of the two specimens here figured from Mr. Cuming's collection, that represented at Fig. 5 a is but indistinctly granulated, the spire is depressly flattened, and the aperture is of bright saffron colour. In the specimen represented at Fig. 5 b, the spire is convexly raised, and there is no indication of colour in the aperture. The granules are numerous, but extremely superficial.

Species 6. (Mus. Dennison.)

ONISCIA DENNISONI. Onisc. testá trigono-ovatá, spirá acutá, anfractibus supernè angulatis, longitudinaliter compressè plicatis, costis numerosis angustis cancellatis, costis ad juncturas squamatis, labro columellari latè expanso, minutè granulato, externo liris subirregularibus denticulato; albidá, fusco subobscure tri-quadrifasciata, labro columellari intensè sanguineo-rutilo, granulis albidis, labro externo rufescente, liris, albidis.

DENNISON'S ONISCIA. Shell triangularly ovate, spire sharp, whorls angled round the upper part, longitudinally compressly plicated, cancellated with numerous narrow ribs, which are squamate at the crossing, columellar lip broadly expanded, minutely granulated, outer lip denticulated with somewhat irregular ridges; whitish, rather obscurely three- or four-banded, columellar lip very deep blood-red, granules whitish, outer lip light red, with the ridges whitish.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842. p. 21. Conch. Syst. vol. ii. p. 211. pl. 253. f. 5 and 6.
Hab. ——?

This species approaches very closely in form and detail of sculpture to the O. cancellata, but is especially remarkable on account of the intensely red colouring of the columella.