EBURNA.—PLATE 1.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc. 1842, p. 200; Conch. Syst. pl. 271. f. 1.
Hab. Japan; Dr. Siebold.

Allied in form to E. Zeylanica, but less umbilicated, and less sharply acuminated; whilst the design of the painting is very characteristic.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)
EBURNA AUSTRALIS. Eburn. testá ovatá, imperforatá, spirá breviusculá, suturis latè depresso-caniculatis, basi leviter sulcatá, sulcis quinque vel sex, deinde sulco unico subprofoundo, supra punctato-striatá, anfractibus quinque; lutescente-albida, maculis grandibus rufo-fuscis juxta suturas, perpaucis minoribus infrà.
The southern Eburna. Shell ovate, imperforated, spire rather short, sutures broadly depressly channelled, sculptured at the base with five or six light grooves, then with a single rather deep one, above striated with fine punctures, whorls five in number; yellowish white, with a row of red-brown spots next the sutures, and a very few smaller ones beneath.
Sowerby, Conch. Illustrations, f. 5.
Hab. Australia.

The Eburna australis has been confounded by many authors with the Cancellaria spirata of Lamarck, believing them to be identical. M. Deshayes goes so far as to say that Mr. Sowerby has represented the same shell in two places (Conch. Illus. Cancellaria, f. 25 and Eburna, f. 5.), suiting the configuration of the columella in each instance to the character of the genus. Such is not the case. The three-plaited Cancellaria spirata and the Eburna australis are two very distinct shells, the latter being of more solid growth, smooth towards the apex, and furnished with an arched callous columella, characteristic of the genus to which it has been referred in the absence of any more suitable place.

Species 5. (Mus. Cuming.)
EBURNA AMBULACRUM. Eburn. testá ovatá, umbilicatá, spirae suturis profundè canaliculatis, anfractibus subplano-convexis, laevibus; albida, fuscescente-spadiceo creberrimè maculatá et nebulato-tinctá, apice nigricante.
The gallery Eburna. Shell ovate, umbilicated, sutures of the spire deeply channelled, whorls rather flatly convex, smooth; whitish, very closely spotted and clouded with brownish bay, apex blackish.
Sowerby, Tankerville Catalogue, App. p. xxii.

Hab. Isle of Mindanao, Philippines (in sandy mud at the depth of twelve fathoms); Cuming.

Very closely allied to the E. spirata, but always readily distinguished by its smaller size, darker colour, and more closely clouded spots.

Species 6. (Mus. Cuming.)
EBURNA AREOLATA. Eburn. testá ovato-ventricosá, spirá elevatá, profundè et ampliter umbilicatá, convexis, laevibus, supernè obtusè depressis, subcanaliculatis, vix angulatis; albá, maculis rufo-castaneis grandibus oblongo-quadratis subundatis seriatim cinctá.
The square-spotted Eburna. Shell ovately ventricose, spire elevated, deeply and largely umbilicated, convex, smooth, obtusely depressed round the upper part, slightly channelled, scarcely angulated; white, encircled with rows of large oblong-square slightly waved reddish-chestnut spots.
Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 235.
Buccinum spiratum var., Bruguière.
Eburna tessellata, Swainson.
Hab. Ceylon.

The spots are disposed in three rows, the lowest being concealed in all but the last whorl, by the superposition of one whorl upon the other.

Species 7. (Mus. Cuming.)
EBURNA SPIRATA. Eburn. testá ovatá, parum umbilicatá, spirá acutá, suturis profundè canaliculatis, anfractibus subplano-convexis; albá, fulvescente-spadiceo maculatá, maculis medianis minoribus, apice caruleo-nigricante.
The spiral Eburna. Shell ovate, but little umbilicated, spire sharp, sutures deeply channelled, whorls rather flatly convex; white, spotted with fulvous bay, middle spots the smaller, apex bluish black.
Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 234.
Buccinum spiratum, Linnaeus.
Hab. Ceylon. Philippines.

An interesting variety of this well-known species was collected during the voyage of the Samarang, in which the spots were smaller and of much darker colour.

Species 8. (Mus. Cuming.)
EBURNA ZEYLANICA. Eburn. testá ovato-conicá, profundè et ampliter umbilicatá, spirá acuminatá, suturis nunquam canaliculatis, anfractibus convexo-declivibus, laevigatis; albá, maculis grandibus sinuatis fulvo-spadiceis