BULIMUS.—PLATE I.

This is the largest of the Philippine species, and that of the most ventricose proportions. The columella is of a livid blueish purple, and the epidermal pattern consists of a number of circular bands or lines, frequently extending around the last and penultimate whorls; the specimen figured, in which the bands are confined to the last whorl, is rather an exceptional variety.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS RUFOGASTER. Bul. testá ovato-conoideá, sub-ventricosá, anfractibus senis, convexis, columellá sub-intortá; nigricante-purpureá, interdum rufescente, epidermide basin versus unifasciatá, strigis longitudinalibus nigricantibus, prope ad suturas latioribus, notatá, aperturá columelláque cærulescente-albidis.

THE RED BULIMUS. Shell ovately conoid, somewhat ventricose, whorls six in number, convex, columella somewhat twisted; blackish purple, sometimes reddish, epidermis marked towards the base with a single band, and with dark longitudinal streaks, which are broader near the sutures, aperture and columella blueish white.

Hab. Province of Baie, Island of Luzon (in dark and lofty forests); Cuming.

In this species the columella is slightly twisted, and of the same blueish white hue as the interior of the shell. The pattern of the epidermis exhibits a single band round the lower part of the last whorl, and a row of broad, short, interrupted streaks around the sutures. This last mentioned design I have not observed in any other species.

Species 5. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PHILIPPINENSIS. Bul. testá ovato-conoideá, basi subplanulatá, anfractibus senis, convexis, ultimo basin versus subobscure angulato; columellá leviter intortá; nigricante-fuscá, epidermide in strigis obliquè concentricis, aperturá cærulescente-albá, columellá pallidè rosaceo-purpurascente.

THE PHILIPPINE BULIMUS. Shell ovately conoid, somewhat flattened at the base, whorls six in number, convex, last whorl somewhat obscurely angled towards the base; columella slightly twisted; blackish-brown, epidermis disposed in obliquely concentric streaks, aperture blueish white, columella pale pinkish purple.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846.
Hab. Islands of Luzon and Marinduque, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

There is little to distinguish this species from the B. pythogaster; it has a somewhat angular inclination of growth around the lower part, but this is not a character to which much importance can be attached, seeing that the typical varieties above figured of that species present almost as great a difference of form.

Species 6. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS REEVII. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, anfractibus senis, tumidiusculis, ultimo ventricoso, effuso; intensè ustulato-fuscá, epidermide in fasciis insignibus latiusculis remotis lineisque subtilibus, aperturá cærulescente-albá, columellá vix intortá, peritreme livido-purpurascenteibus.

REEVE'S BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls six in number, rather swollen, last whorl ventricose and effused; rich burnt-brown, with the epidermis in remarkable rather broad bands and fine lines, aperture blueish white, columella scarcely twisted, and, together with the peritreme, of a livid purple hue.

CUMING, MSS., Mus. Cuming.
Helix Reevii, Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841.
Hab. Luhban, Province of Tayabas, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

This is the first species of Bulimus, and I believe the first shell, which Mr. Cuming unpacked from his vast collection on his return from the Philippines, and, being present at this exciting moment, I shall not easily forget the impression caused by the sight of so superb an example of an arboreal Snail. The remarkable disposition of the epidermis was quite a matter of astonishment, nothing of the kind had been observed before, nor had any specimen of the B. pythogaster been collected in a state of preservation by which this phenomenon could be understood.