BULIMUS.—PLATE I.

recently discovered by Mr. Adams, of H.M.S. Samarang, by the accidental falling of a huge tree, in a woody islet situated between Banguey and Balambangan, but they are of rare occurrence in that locality. In Europe, where nature is exposed to the vicissitudes of a colder climate, the Bulimi are mostly small and exhibit no brilliancy of colour. So also, in the extensive region of North America, where no more than a few insignificant species are known to exist. It is in the richly fertile and woody district of Columbia, that the genus Bulimus is represented with a magnificence little inferior to that of the Philippine Islands; here they are large enough and sufficiently abundant to be roasted and eaten by the aborigines as a frequent article of food. Several fine species, entirely new to science, have been collected in Venezuela and New Granada by Mr. Linden, an assiduous Botanical Traveller, only within the last twelvemonth, at an altitude of from 5000 to 8000 feet, and many more, no doubt, dwell in undisturbed solitude in the vast interior of this immense continent. It is extremely probable that a large portion of South America yet remains to be explored by the adventurous naturalist, where there is no doubt a fine expanse of forest country, grand in extent, rich in foliage, and possessing all the elements favourable to the growth and beauty of arboreal mollusks.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MACROSTOMA. Bul. testá ovali, ventricosá, spirá subabbreviátá, anfractibus senis, convexo-tumidis, concentricè striatis, columellá basi subcontortá; purpureo-fuscá, epidermide hydrophaná, in anfractu ultimo unizonatá, indutá; aperturá cærulescente-albá, labro reflexo.

THE WIDE-MOUTH BULIMUS. Shell oval, ventricose, spire slightly abbreviated, whorls six in number, convexly tumid, concentrically striated, columella slightly twisted at the base; purple-brown, covered with a hydrophanous epidermis, marked with a single zone on the last whorl; aperture blueish white, lip reflected.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 152.
Hab. Sual, Province of Pangasinan, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on leaves of trees); Cuming.

This species approaches the B. rufogaster, it partakes of the same shades of colour, and the epidermis is characterised by a similar zone round the last whorl; it does not however exhibit the vacant patches beneath the sutures. The columella of B. macrostoma is slightly twisted, and the general form of the shell is eminently distinguished by its swollen egg-shaped growth.

Species 2. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PYTHOGASTER. Bul. testá subpyramidalis-ovatá, anfractibus senis, plano-convexis, ultimo ventricoso, columellá rectá; purpureo-nigricante, epidermide interdum simplici, interdum longitudinaliter strigatá, aperturá cærulescente-albá, columellá rosaceo-purpurascente.

THE ORIENTAL BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramially ovate, whorls six in number, flatly convex, the last ventricose, columella straight; purple-black, epidermis sometimes simple, sometimes arranged in longitudinal streaks, aperture blueish white, columella pinkish purple.

FERUSSAC, Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 226.
Hab. Fig. a, Island of Ticao; Fig. b, Mount Isarog, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on leaves of trees); Cuming.

The examples of B. pythogaster selected for representation vary so materially in form, as well as in the arrangement of the epidermis, that one might consider them to belong to distinct species, were it not for the similarity in the structure and colouring of the aperture. In the specimen from Ticao, Fig. a, the shell is broader and more acutely ventricose at the base, and the epidermis is arranged in longitudinal streaks; in that from Luzon, Fig. b, the base is somewhat contracted, imparting a more pyramidal form to the shell, the apex is dark purple, and the epidermis is soft and velvety, uniformly distributed throughout without any description of pattern.

Species 3. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LIGNARIUS. Bul. testá ovato-conoideá, ventricosissimá, anfractibus senis, tumido-convexis; columellá rectá; purpureo-nigricante, epidermide lineis fasciisque in anfractu ultimo, et interdum penultimo, notatá; aperturá cærulescente-albá, columellá livido-purpurascente.

THE WOODEN BULIMUS. Shell ovately conoid, very ventricose, whorls six in number, tumidly convex; columella straight; purple-black, epidermis marked with bands or lines on the last and sometimes the penultimate whorl; aperture blueish-white, columella livid purple.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842.
Hab. Gattarang, Province of Cagayan, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on leaves of trees); Cuming.