BULIMUS.

PLATE IV.

Species 15. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MINDOROENSIS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, anfractibus senis, convexis, columellá subarcuatá; fusco-nigricante aut rufescente, epidermide in strigis conspicuis subdistantibus, aperturá cærulescente-albá, peritreme effusá, intensè fusco-nigricante.

THE MINDORO BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, whorls six in number, convex, columella slightly arched; brownish black or reddish, with the epidermis in conspicuous, rather distant, longitudinal streaks, aperture bluish white, peritreme effused, deeply stained with brown-black.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840. p. 84.
Hab. Puerto Galero, Philippine Islands (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

The epidermal pattern of this species is characteristic, consisting of numerous conspicuously marked longitudinal streaks, which in parts are somewhat distant from each other. The aperture in most of the species is comparatively rather small, and the lip in all is effused rather than reflected back.

I cannot quite agree in the varieties noted by Mr. Broderip, some of which are too nearly alike to make it worth while to mark a distinction, whilst there is one which appears to me of so different a character, that it should be regarded as another species, see Plate V. Sp. 20.

Species 16. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CHRYSALIDIFORMIS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, medio ventricosiore, anfractibus septenis, subplano-convexis, columellá subintortá, aperturá parviusculá; intensè rufo-castaneá, epidermide in fasciis latiusculis, longitudinalibus, undatis, vel flavescente, epidermide sub fasciá rufo-fuscá infra suturas eximiè tessellatá, peritreme intensè castaneá.

THE CHRYSALIS-SHAPED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, more ventricose in the middle, whorls seven in number, rather flatly convex, columella slightly twisted inwards, aperture somewhat small; deep reddish chesnut colour, with the epidermis in rather broad longitudinal waved streaks, or yellowish, with the epidermis delicately tessellated upon a reddish brown band beneath the sutures, peritreme deep chesnut brown.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833. f. 37. Conch. Illus. Bulimus, f. 28.
Hab. Fig. 16 a, Mansalai, Island of Mindoro. Fig. 16 b, Puerto Galero, Philippines (in dark forests of thick foliage, upon and beneath the leaves); Cuming.

The Bulimus chrysalidiformis described by Mr. Sowerby, prior to Mr. Cuming's voyage to the Philippine Islands, from a pale uncoated specimen, is mainly distinguished by its elongately cylindrical form, the aperture being comparatively rather small, and a little distorted from the twisting of the columella. The yellow variety represented at Fig. 16 a, is very remarkable, and appears, at first sight, to differ materially from the type of the species, which approaches rather to B. Mindoroensis.

Species 17. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NIMBOSUS. Bul. testá pyramidali-oblongá, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus septenis, convexis, columellá arcuatá; intensè brunneá, epidermide in floccis latis subdistantibus undatis, aperturá cærulescente-albá, peritreme brunneá.

THE RAINY BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, spire acuminated, whorls seven in number, convex, columella arched; deep brown, with the epidermis in broad, rather distant, wavy flakes, aperture bluish white, peritreme brown.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 121.
Hab. Island of Negros (on the summits of the mountains); Cuming.

A fine dark brown species of a pyramidally acuminated form, with the epidermis disposed in light longitudinally waved flakes. Mr. Broderip's variety d has always appeared to me so constantly distinct from this, that I propose to elevate it to the rank of a species, in compliment to my friend, Dr. Pfeiffer.

Species 18. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PFEIFFERIANUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovalá, sub-ventricosá, anfractibus senis, tumidiusculis, columellá subarcuatá; flavo-viridescente, epidermide in strigis longitudinalibus undatis, columellá et aperturá cærulescente-albis, peritreme et parte circa columellam, nigricante-fuscis.