BULIMUS.

PLATE II.

Species 7. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS GILVUS. Bul. testá subglobosá, apice obtusá, anfractibus senis, rotundatis, concentricè striatis, apertura subcontractá, columellá vix curvatá; gilvá vel ustulato-rufá, anfractu ultimo obscurè unifasciato, epidermide simplici indutá, peritremeate collumelláque livido-albis.

THE BRICK-COLOURED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat globose, obtuse at the apex, whorls six in number, rounded, concentrically striated, aperture rather contracted, columella slightly curved; brick-coloured or burnt-red, last whorl encircled with an obscure band, covered with a simple epidermis, peritreme and columella livid-white.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 45.
Hab. Island of Bohol, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

The specimens of B. gilvus figured give a tolerable idea of the varieties of the species, which only affect the shell so far as the depth of colour and thickness of the epidermis are concerned. The last whorl exhibits an obscure band round the lower part, and the concentric striae are rather prominently developed, but there is no epidermal pattern or configuration. The livid-white peritreme and columella are rather a characteristic feature in the species. It appears to be confined to the Island of Bohol.

The B. gilvus, it will be observed, partakes much more of the character of Helix than the following, which Mr. Broderip refers to that genus according to the method of De Férussac.

Species 8. (Fig. a, b, and c. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS DAPHNIS. Bul. testá pyramidalí ovatá, anfractibus senis, convexis, plus minus ventricosis, apertura subcontractá, columellá subrectá; nigricante-purpureá spadiceáque, epidermide vel simplici, vel in strigis longitudinalibus, vel in fasciis lineisve transversis; columellá roseo-purpureá, apertura cærulescente-albá, peritremeate nigricante-purpureá.

THE DAPHNIS BULIMUS. Shell pyramidal, ovate, whorls six in number, convex, more or less ventricose, aperture somewhat contracted, columella nearly straight; blackish purple or fawn colour, epidermis either simple or disposed in longitudinal streaks or transverse bands and lines, columella pinkish purple, aperture blueish white, peritreme blackish purple.

Helix (Cochlostyla) Daphnis, Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 180.
Hab. Fig. a, Island of Siquijor; Fig. b, Argao, Island of Zebu; Fig. c, San Nicolas, Island of Zebu, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

Of the varieties of this charming species it may be said their name is legion, all remarkable for their neatness and alike worthy to sustain the rural dignity of the pastoral shepherd and poet whose name they bear. Of the specimens selected for representation, one has the epidermis disposed in transverse bands, another in concentric streaks, whilst in the third it is without any indication of pattern; and it may be observed that they vary even in form. In the most important part of the shell, the aperture and columella, they resemble each other perfectly, and not the least permanent character of the species resides in the pinky colouring of those parts.

Species 9. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS SOLIDUS. Bul. testá oblongá, subelongatá, anfractibus septenis, ultimo basin versus obsoletissimè angulato; columellá subintortá; nigricante-purpureá, epidermide in strigis longitudinalibus, confertis, irregularibus, apertura cærulescente, peritremeate nigricante-purpureá.

THE SOLID BULIMUS. Shell oblong, somewhat elongated, whorls seven in number, the last very obsoletely angled towards the base; columella slightly twisted; blackish-purple, epidermis in close-set irregular longitudinal streaks, aperture blueish, peritreme blackish-purple.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 152.
Hab. San Juan, Province of Cagayan, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on leaves of trees); Cuming.

This species, of which Mr. Cuming collected only a few specimens, is of an elongately oblong form, and composed of one more whorl than any of the preceding; it is of rather dark colour, and the longitudinal streaks of epidermis are very irregular and close-set. There is a variety in which the last whorl is more inflated and has a whitish band.

The name devoted to this species is rather an inappropriate one, the shell being of no more solid growth than its congeners.