BULIMUS.

PLATE VI.

Species 24. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GUIMARASENSIS. Bul. testá subacuminato-oblongá, anfractibus quinis, convexis; albá, glabrá, anfractibus fasciá fuscá conspicuá supra infraque cingulatis, epidermide tenui nitidá luteo-olivaceá indutá.

THE GUIMARAS BULIMUS. Shell somewhat acuminate oblong, whorls five in number, convex; white, smooth, whorls encircled above and below by a conspicuous brown band, and covered by a thin shining yellowish olive epidermis.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 156.
Hab. Island of Guimaras, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

A well-defined though not a particularly striking shell, partaking of the character of B. ovoideus and citrinus. Fig. 24 a is the ordinary state of the species; the variety represented at Fig. 24 b is one of rare occurrence, in which the bands are unusually broad and dark coloured.

Species 25. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FRATER. Bul. testá subacuminato-oblongá, anfractibus quinis, convexis; rosaceo-albídá, anfractuum parte inferiori zonulá angustá rufescente cingulatá, epidermide tenui nitidá rufescente-luteá indutá.

THE BROTHER BULIMUS. Shell somewhat acuminate oblong, whorls five in number, convex; pinkish-white, lower part of the whorls encircled by a narrow reddish zone, covered by a thin shining reddish-yellow epidermis.

DE FERUSSAC, Hist. Nat. Moll. terr. et fluv. pl. 112. f. 3 and 4.
Hab. Island of Leyte, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

Dr. Pfeiffer is of opinion that this shell is the B. frater of De Féruccac, which is highly probable, although his figure of that species represents one of larger dimensions and devoid of the delicate rose colouring.

Species 26. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MACULIFERUS. Bul. testá acuminato-oblongá, plerumque sinistrorsá, anfractibus senis, convexis, concentricè striatis, ultimo longiusculo; flavescente-spadiceá, interdum brunneo maculatá et nebulatá, interdum immaculatá, lineá roseá longitudinali hic illic ornatá, suturis albidis, peritremeate albá, apice nitidè opaco-albo.

THE BLOTCHED BULIMUS. Shell acuminate oblong, mostly sinistral, whorls six in number, concentrically striated, last whorl rather long; yellowish fawn colour, sometimes blotched and clouded with brown, sometimes unspotted, ornamented here and there with a pink longitudinal line, sutures whitish, peritreme white, apex shining opake white.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841, p. 14.
Hab. Province of Misamis, Philippines (on the trunks of trees); Cuming.

Dr. Pfeiffer has intimated his opinion that the B. maculiferus is a variety of the B. citrinus. I cannot, however, agree with him in this; the species are very nearly allied but always distinct. The present is of a more elongated growth, and in all its varieties is characterized by the same pale ferruginous fawn colouring. The variety represented at Fig. 26 b is prettily distinguished by three or four narrow longitudinal zones of a delicate rose colour.

Species 27. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SMARAGDINUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, plus minusve ventricósá, anfractibus convexis, subtilissimè obliquè striatis, suturis superficialiter canaliculatis; albá, epidermide tenui corneá nitidá infra suturas indutá; in anfractu ultimo smaragdiná vel olivaceo-virescente, purpureo apicem versus evanescente; peritremeate interdum albá, interdum pallide rosaceá.

THE EMERALD-GREEN BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate, more or less ventricose, whorls convex, very finely obliquely striated, sutures superficially channelled, white, covered beneath the sutures with a thin shining horny epidermis; bright emerald-green or olive-green on the last whorl, fading into purple towards the apex, peritreme sometimes white, sometimes light pink.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 49. Conch. Syst. vol. ii. pl. 173. f. 6.
Hab. Surigao, Island of Mindanao, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

The accompanying figures of this bright coloured and delicate species represent extreme states of it, one being much more ventricose and of a lighter colour than the