Species 34. (Mus. Cuming.)

Bulimus Romblonensis. Bul. testá pyramidali-ovatá, anfractibus senis leviter convexis, striis transversis et obliquis subtilissimè obscurè decussatis, columellá intortá; virescente-albá, glabrá, nitidá, anfractibus fasciá castaneá infernè cingulatá, epidermide tenui viridiluteá, parte circa columellam nigricante-castaneá, columellá et peritremeate albis.

The Romblon Bulimus. Shell pyramidally ovate, whorls slightly convex, obscurely decussated with very fine transverse and oblique striæ, columella twisted; greenish-white, smooth, shining, whorls encircled round the lower part with a chesnut band, epidermis thin, greenish yellow, blackish chesnut around the columella, columella and peritreme white.

Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 152.
Hab. Island of Romblon, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

A bright shining species closely resembling a variety of B. cincinnus, not figured in the accompanying plate, which is sufficiently distinct in form to prevent their being confounded, the one for the other.

Species 35. (Mus. Cuming.)

Bulimus subcarinatus. Bul. testá conico-ovatá, sub-

pellucidá, anfractibus senis convexis, striis transversis et obliquis subtilissimè decussatis, ultimo infernè obscurè subcarinato, columellá vix intortá, labro reflexo, subeffuso; cærulescente-albá, epidermide hydrophaná fuscescente ad suturas peculiariter auratá, sub alterá cornea.

The slightly-keeled Bulimus. Shell conically ovate, somewhat transparent, whorls six in number, convex, very finely decussated with fine transverse and oblique striæ, last whorl obscurely slightly keeled, columella but little twisted, lip reflected, somewhat effused; blueish white, epidermis hydrophanous, light brown, peculiarly golden tinged at the sutures, over another one of a thin horny substance.

Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 153.
Hab. Island of Romblon, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

This delicate semi-transparent species serves to illustrate in an interesting manner the phenomenon, observed in many Bulimi, of a double epidermis. The shell under consideration is a clear opal white, it is then covered with a thin, shining, greenish, horny epidermis, over which is a soft, tenacious, porous, hydrophanous one, curiously puckered and tinged with a bronze or golden hue around the sutures.