cingulata, epidermide tenui, albicante, strigas longitudinales subindistincte praeterrimmente, peritreme rufo-fusco.

THE CLOTHED BULIMUS. Shell oblong, somewhat Pupa-shaped, whorls six in number, subrotund, aperture rather small, lip simple; yellowish white, encircled with a narrow red-brown zone, epidermis thin, whitish, leaving somewhat indistinctly longitudinal streaks, peritreme red-brown.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841, p. 15.
Hab. Island of Camote, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

Of this species Mr. Cuming only collected three specimens, and these appear to be of somewhat immature growth. It is not distinguished by any marked peculiarity of character.

Fig. 58. (Mus. Cuming.)

This shell was named in Mr. Cuming's collection B. nebulosus, but as I am doubtful of its being a variety of the B. calista, it may for the present be referred to that species. For Sp. 58, see Pl. XIII.

Species 59. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PYRAMIDALIS. Bul. testa oblongo-pyramidalis, apice obtusa, anfractibus senis, subrotundis, apertura parviuscula, labro simplici; fulva, basin versus suturisque nigricante-castanea, epidermide tenui induta, columellae alba, peritreme rufo-fusco.

THE PYRAMIDAL BULIMUS. Shell oblong-pyramidal, obtuse at the apex, whorls six in number, somewhat round, aperture rather small, lip simple; yellowish, blackish chesnut towards the base and in the sutures, covered with a thin epidermis, columella white, peritreme brown.

Helix pyramidalis, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841, p. 39.
Hab. Island of Cuyo, Philippines (upon the leaves of trees); Cuming.

The colour of this shell is a dark burnt brown, with traces of a light puckered epidermis beneath the sutures. It may be readily distinguished by this and its pyramidal growth.

Species 60. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ACUMINATUS. Bul. testa subpyramidali-ovata, apice acuminata, anfractibus quinis, convexis, ultimo obscurè subangulato, labro tenui, vix reflexo; lutescente-brunnea, zonula castanea cingulata, epidermide tenui induta, columellae alba, peritreme rufo-fusco.

THE ACUMINATED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally ovate, spire acuminated, whorls five in number, convex, the last obscurely slightly angled, lip thin, but slightly reflected; yellowish-brown, encircled by a narrow chesnut zone, covered with a thin epidermis, columella white, peritreme red-brown.

Helix acuminata, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841, p. 39.
Hab. Island of Cuyo, Philippines (upon the leaves of trees); Cuming.

Of a peculiar yellowish-brown colour encircled by a narrow zone of red-brown and stained with very dark chesnut round the columella. It differs from B. incomptus only in form, its general aspect and colouring are the same.