BULIMUS.

PLATE XI.

Species 53. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS INCOMPTUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, obtuso-pyramidalí, anfractibus quinis, rotundatis, columellá rectá, labro vix reflexo; lutescente-brunneá, zonulá nigricante-fuscá cingulatá, epidermide tenui indutá.

THE UNADORNED BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate, obtusely pyramidal, whorls five in number, rounded, columella straight, lip but slightly reflexed; yellowish brown, encircled by a narrow blackish brown zone, covered by a thin epidermis.

Helix incompta, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840.
Hab. Island of Tablas, Philippines.

Only a single specimen of this species was collected, and it has very much the appearance of being an abortive growth of one subsequently named by Mr. Sowerby, Helix acuminata (Sp. 60); they are identical in colour and pattern, but vary materially in form.

Species 54. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PARTULOIDES. Bul. testá pyramidalí, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus quinis, convexis, aperturá parviusculá, subquadrato-ovali, labro latissimè reflexo; albidá, zonulá castaneo-nigricante cingulatá, epidermide luteá indutá, interdum omnino intensè castaneá, peritreme albo.

THE PARTULA-LIKE BULIMUS. Shell pyramidal, spire acuminated, whorls five in number, convex, aperture rather small, somewhat square-ovate, lip very broadly reflected; whitish, encircled by a narrow chesnut black zone, covered by a yellow epidermis, sometimes dark chesnut throughout, peritreme white.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 181.
Hab. Island of Tablas, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

This is the nearest approach to Partula of any species of the genus, the aperture having the same square-like form and widely reflexed lip.

Species 55. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LUZONICUS. Bul. testá subelongato-ovatá, apice obtusá, anfractibus senis, convexis, columellá intortá, aperturá subcontractá, labro reflexo; eburneá, zonulá angustá nigricante conspicuè cingulatá.

THE LUZON BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately ovate, obtuse at the apex, whorls six in number, convex, columella twisted, aperture somewhat contracted, lip reflexed; ivory white, conspicuously encircled by a narrow black zone.

Hab. Island of Masbate, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

I have always considered this shell to represent a species distinct from B. ovoideus, and propose to re-establish Mr. Sowerby's name, although he himself abandoned it upon the grounds of its relationship. It is of a more elongately oblong form, is composed of a whorl more, and the narrow black zone with which it is encircled never varies. These characters may be regarded as of trifling importance, but they are constant. In a parcel of upwards of a hundred of each species which came into my possession some time since, there was no variation or the least tendency to merge one into the other. The name is rather an inappropriate one, for Mr. Cuming did not collect a single species at Luzon; there is, however, no reason why it might not become naturalized in that island.

Species 56. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS OVOIDEUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, subventricosá, apice obtusá, anfractibus quinis, convexis, columellá vix intortá, labro reflexo; alba, fasciis duabus tribuse latiusculis aurantio- vel castaneo-fuscis cingulatá, epidermide tenuissimá.

THE OVOID BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate, rather ventricose, obtuse at the apex, whorls five in number, convex, columella scarcely twisted, lip reflected; white, encircled with two or three rather broad orange-brown or chesnut bands, epidermis very thin.

Bruguiere, Enc. Méth. Dict., No. 64.
Hab. Islands of Ticao and Masbate, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

Distinguished by its oval ventricose growth and broad spiral bands of colour.

Species 57. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS VELATUS. Bul. testá oblongá, sub-Pupaeformi, anfractibus senis, subrotundis, aperturá parviusculá, labro simplici; lutescente-albá, zonulá rufo-fuscescente