flamed with white, encircled round the lower part with a dark line or narrow band, sometimes with a white band beneath the sutures peculiarly abraded here and there, columella and interior of the aperture bluish white, peritreme edged with chesnut-black.
Helix leucophaea, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841. p. 19.
Hab. Dolores, Province of Pampanga, and Mountains of Igarrotes, Province of Cagayan, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.
There is a singular peculiarity attending this species in the manner in which the epidermis, especially on the band which is sometimes seen beneath the sutures, is abraded, denuding the shell in patches.

Species 51. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS LEOPARDUS. Bul. testá subabbreviato-ovatâ, ventricosâ, anfractibus quinis, convexis, longitudinaliter creberrimè costulato-striatis, ultimo spirae longitudinem superante, columellâ arcuatâ, aperturâ amplissimâ; luteo-castaneâ, epidermide albidâ sparsâ, sub alternâ tenui corneaâ, variegatâ, peritreme purpureo-castaneo.
THE LEOPARD BULIMUS. Shell somewhat shortly ovate, ventricose, whorls five in number, convex, very closely sculptured longitudinally with fine rib-like striæ, last whorl exceeding the length of the spire, columella arched, aperture very large; yellowish-chesnut, variegated with a scattered whitish epidermis upon a thin horny one, peritreme purple-chesnut.
PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 67.
Hab. Island of Mindoro, Philippines.

This remarkable species, of which Mr. Cuming has only the single specimen here represented, is distinguished from all others by the effused and suddenly enlarged development of the last whorl. It is also characterized by a regular succession of longitudinal rib-like striae of a more defined growth than the ordinary lines of structure, which in a genus so devoid of sculpture is an important feature.
The name is suggested by the scattered interrupted stripes in which the outer hydrophanous epidermis is deposited. The columella, it should be observed, has a pinky hue, and the impress of the striae imparts a delicate satiny iridescence to the interior of the shell.

Species 52. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CONCINNUS. Bul. testá pyramidali-oblongâ, anfractibus sexis plano-convexis, aperturâ contractâ, labro reflexo; castaneo-fuscâ, epidermide concinnè albido-marmoratâ et flammatâ, columellâ et aperturâ fauce cærulescente-albis, peritreme nigricante-castaneo
THE PRETTY BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, whorls six in number, flatly convex, aperture contracted, lip reflected; chesnut-brown, epidermis prettily flamed and marbled with white, columella and interior of the aperture bluish white, peritreme dark chesnut.
Helix concinna, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841. p. 20.
Hab. St. Juan, Province of Cagayan, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.
I much doubt whether this is anything more than a variety of the B. leucophaea; it is, however, a well-marked and extremely pretty one.