BULIMUS.—PLATE XII.

The shell is not in very good condition and only a vestige of the epidermis remains near the aperture.

Species 66. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LEAI. Bul. testá ovato-conoideá, solidiusculá, spirá subobtusá, anfractibus quinque, rotundatis, columellá sub-planá, labro reflexo; albá, epidermide tenui stramineá indutá.

Lea's Bulimus. Shell ovately conoid, rather solid, spire somewhat obtuse, whorls five in number, rounded, columella rather flattened, lip reflected; white, covered with a thin straw-coloured epidermis.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 29.
Hab. Philippine Islands.

A shell of simple character though not exactly agreeing with any other species.

Species 67. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS STABILIS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-ovatá, crassiusculá, basi effusá, anfractibus sex, plano-convexis, angustis, aperturá obliquá, labro fortiter reflexo; albá, anfractuum parte inferiori intensè ustulato-castaneá, peritreme albo.

The firm Bulimus. Shell cylindrically ovate, rather thick, effused at the base, whorls six in number, flatly convex, narrow, aperture oblique, lip strongly reflected; white, lower part of the whorls deep burnt chesnut, peritreme white,

Helix stabilis, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 104.
Hab. Isle of Temple, Philippines; Cuming.

A solid Pupiform shell, approximating in some degree to the B. ovoideus but of more solid structure and very peculiar in its style of colouring.

Species 68. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BULLULA. Bul. testá ovato-conoideá, anfractibus quatuor, convexis, aperturá subeffusá, labro vix reflexo; cærulescente-albá diaphaná, aut flavicante, apice pallidè rubido.

The little bubble Bulimus. Shell ovately conoid, whorls four in number, convex, aperture somewhat effused, lip slightly reflected; transparent bluish white or yellowish, pale ruddy colour at the apex.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 159.
Hab. Puerto Galero, Island of Mindoro, Philippines; Cuming.

A most delicately coloured species of a transparent opal white tinged with red at the apex.

Species 69. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DILATATUS. Bul. testá crassiusculá, abbreviato-pyramidalí, subcentricosá, anfractibus sex, angustis, columellá plano-dilatatá, aperturá parviusculá; nigricante-purpureá, apicem versus rufescente, epidermide fuscá, hydrophaná, columellá et aperturæ fauce albis, peritreme nigricante-purpureo marginato.

The dilated Bulimus. Shell rather thick, abbreviately pyramidal, somewhat ventricose, whorls six in number, narrow, columella flatly dilated, aperture rather small; blackish-purple, reddish towards the apex, with a brown hydrophanous epidermis, columella and interior white, peritreme edged with purple-black.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 42.

A solid contracted pyramidal shell approaching somewhat in form to the B. leucophæa; and the hydrophanous epidermis, of which this specimen exhibits the remains, appears to be abraded in patches beneath the sutures as in that species.

Singularly allied in form to the B. dilatatus, which is of a dark purple-brown colour, but somewhat less ventricose.