BULIMUS.

PLATE XIII.

Species 58. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ZONULATUS. Bul. testá conico-oblongá, tenui, umbilicatá, anfractibus convexis, laevibus, labro columellari reflexo, umbilicum ferè occultante, externo simplici; pallidè opaco-stramineá, macularum pellucidarum seriebus duabus cinctá, anfractu ultimo zonulis duabus castaneis ornato.

THE FINELY ZONED BULIMUS. Shell conically oblong, thin, umbilicated, whorls convex, smooth, columellar lip reflected so as almost to conceal the umbilicus, outer lip simple; pale opake straw-colour, encircled by two rows of transparent spots, last whorl ornamented with two narrow chesnut zones.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 41.
Hab. Cabanatuan, Province of Nueva Eaja, Island of Luzon; Cuming.

There is a very singular character attending this species; the shell is of a thin transparent horny substance, covered by an opake straw-coloured layer except in those places by which the pattern is produced, the spots have thus an appearance, so to speak, of little windows in the shell.

Species 70. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PANAMENSIS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, tenui, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus quinque convexis, laevibus, aperturá parviusculá, labro simplici; pallidè fulvá, diaphaná.

THE PANAMA BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, thin, slightly umbilicated, whorls five in number, smooth, aperture rather small, lip simple; pale fulvous colour, diaphanous.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.
Hab. King's and Saboga Islands, Bay of Panama (on the trunks of large trees); Cuming.

The form of this shell is extremely simple, and its colour a semi-transparent nankeen.

Species 71. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TRANSLUCENS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, tenui, valdè pellucidá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus quinque, subventricosis, laevibus aut transversim et longitudinaleiter minutè striatis, labro simplici; corneo-lutescente.

THE TRANSPARENT BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, thin, very pellucid, slightly umbilicated, whorls five in number, smooth or transversely and longitudinally minutely striated, lip simple; pale horny yellow.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 31.
Hab. King's and Saboga Islands, Panama (upon the trees); Cuming.

Of a beautiful transparent glassy structure, through which the internal winding of the columella may be plainly seen. It is very similar in form to the B. Panamensis, and is from the same locality.

Species 72. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS EVANESCENS. Bul. testá subabbreviato-pyramidalí, apice obtusá, anfractibus quinque, convexis, laevibus, nitidiusculis, aperturá parviusculá, labro reflexo; virescente-albá, subdiaphaná, lineá nigrá infra suturas, parte circa columellam conspicuè nigrá.

THE EVANESCENT BULIMUS. Shell somewhat abbreviately pyramidal, obtuse at the apex, whorls five in number, convex, smooth, rather shining, aperture somewhat small, lip reflected: greenish white, subdiaphanous, with a black line beneath the sutures, and the part around the columella conspicuously black.

PFEIFFER, (inedit?).
Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

A delicate semi-transparent shell easily recognised by the black line between the sutures, and broader band around the columella.

Species 73. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ADAMSII. Bul. testá ovato-turritá, sinistrali, anfractibus convexis, laevibus, aperturá parviusculá, labro reflexo; virescente aut luteá, maculis irregularibus subquadratis, nigricante-viridibus medio confertim uniseriatim cinctá, interdum immaculatá, parte circa columellam purpureo-roseá.

ADAMS' BULIMUS. Shell ovately turreted, sinistral, whorls convex, smooth, aperture rather small, lip reflected; greenish or yellow, encircled round the middle with a row of close-set irregular somewhat square blackish green spots, sometimes unspotted, the part around the columella purple-rose.

Hab. Eastern Coast of Borneo (on a tall tree in an islet between Banguey and Balambangan); Adams.