BULIMUS.—PLATE XVI.

The specimen selected for representation is the Var. D. marmorata of D'Orbigny, the larger varieties in which there are none of the transverse lines serving to characterize this, approximate rather to the B. Tupacii of the same author.

Species 95. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS COQUIMBENSIS. Bul. testá subfusiformi-ovatá, tenuissimá, ventricosá, anfractibus sex, convexis, subobliquis, longitudinaliter rudè striatis, anfractu ultimo maximo, aperturá subamplá, labro simplici; albidá, fuscescente tinctá, punctis maculis strigisque nigricantibus aspersá

THE COQUIMBO BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiformly ovate, very thin, ventricose, whorls six in number, rather oblique, longitudinally rudely striated, last whorl very large, aperture rather large, lip simple; whitish, stained with light brown, and sprinkled with blackish dots, blotches and streaks.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 30.
Succinea Coquimbensis, Pfeiffer.
Hab. Mountains of Coquimbo; Cuming.

The painting of this species is also not much unlike that of the B. Broderipii from which it differs most essentially in form.

Species 96. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PIPERATUS. Bul. testá ovatá, tenui, valdè inflatá, spirá breviusculá, acuminatá, anfractibus quinque, ultimo maximo, obscurè rugoso-granulatis et striatis, aperturá peramplá, labro víz reflexo; albidá, punctis fuscis perpaucis aspersá, epidermide flavidá indutá.

THE PEPPERED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, greatly inflated, spire rather short, acuminated, whorls five in number, the last very large, obscurely roughly granulated and striated, aperture very large, lip scarcely reflected; whitish, sprinkled with a yellowish epidermis.

SOWERBY, Conch. Illus. f. 93.
Hab. Hualaga, Peru.

The most inflated of the Succinea-form species, distinguished by a more economical style of painting than its congeners.

Species 97. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BRODERIPIII. Bul. testá ovatá, abbreviato-fusiformi, tenuissimá, valdè inflatá, spirá brevi, anfractibus quinque, ultimo maximo, sub lente minutè granulato-rugosis, aperturá peramplá, labro simplici; albidá, nigro fulvoque conspicuè et elegantissimè maculatá et variegatá.

BRODERIP'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, abbreviately fusiform, very thin, greatly inflated, spire short, whorls five in number, the last very large, minutely granulately rugose under the lens, aperture very large, lip simple; whitish, conspicuously and very elegantly blotched and variegated with black and fulvous brown.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 30.
Succinea Broderipii, Pfeiffer.
Hab. Copiapo, Chili (in the fissures of rocks); Cuming.

Much smaller varieties of this species occur than that selected for figuring and more richly coloured; it is an extremely thin and fragile shell.