BULIMUS.

PLATE XVI.

Species 91. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PECILUS. Bul. testá elongato-ovatá, tenui, ventricosá, subumbilicatá, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus sex aut septem, longitudinaliter striatis, labro tenui, simplici; albida, fuscescente tinctá, caeruleo-nigricante varie fasciatá aut maculatá aut punctatá, apice peculiariter nigricante.

THE VARI-PICTURED BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, thin, ventricose, slightly umbilicated, spire acuminated, whorls six or seven in number, longitudinally striated, lip thin, simple; whitish, stained with pale brown and variously banded, or blotched, or dotted with bluish black, apex peculiarly blackish.

D'ORBIGNY, Voyage dans l'Amer. Mérid. p. 286. pl. 31. f. 1 to 10.

Hab. Bolivian Andes, South America (at the roots of shrubs); D'Orbigny, Bridges.

An extremely variable species of which D'Orbigny has considered it necessary to give ten figures, mainly distinguished by its acuminated growth and general disposition of colour.

Species 92. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUNCTULIFER. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, tenuissimá, umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, longitudinaliter striatis, sub lente undique creberrimè plano-granulosis, per marginem superiorem hic illic minutè rudè crenulatis, labro tenui simplici, columellari reflexo; albida, fusco irregulariter lineatá et punctatá, epidermide flavicante indutá.

THE DOTTED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, very thin, umbilicated, whorls six in number, longitudinally striated, under the lens very closely flatly granulated, minutely rudely crenulated here and there along the upper margin, lip thin, simple, the columellar lip reflected back; whitish, irregularly lineated and dotted with brown, covered with a yellowish epidermis.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 39.

Hab. Chili, La Questa Prada, Cuming; La Questa de Arenos, Huasco, Bridges.

Approaching the B. granulosus in form and sculpture, the painting of this shell resembles that of B. Broderipii, though easily distinguished by its dotted indefinite style of pattern.

Species 93. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS RUPICOLUS. Bul. testá fusiformi-ovatá, tenui, spirá subacutá, anfractibus quinque ultimo maximo, longitudinaliter rudè striatis, undique minutè granulato-rugosis, labro simplici; albida, maculis longitudinalibus punctisque nigricantibus seriatim pictá, epidermide flavicante indutá.

THE ROCK-INHABITING BULIMUS. Shell fusiformly ovate, thin, spire rather sharp, whorls five in number, the last very large, longitudinally rudely striated and everywhere minutely granulately rough, lip simple; whitish, painted with rows of black longitudinal blotches and dots, covered with a yellowish epidermis.

Succinea variegata, Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 187.

Hab. Valleys in the north of Coquimbo (in the crevices of rocks); Bridges.

I think Dr. Pfeiffer has greatly erred in referring this group of Bulimi to the genus Succinea, the type of which is an amphibious animal, like the Lymnea, affecting damp and swampy situations, such as the banks of stagnant pools, in marshes, or on floating vegetable matter. The habits of these species are much opposed to this; dwelling in the dry crevices of the rocks which appear in the sandy plains west of the Andes, where there is little or no moisture beyond that which arises from the dews.

The name variegatus cannot be adopted, in consequence of its having been used under the head of Bulimus by Bruguière in reference to the Tornatella flammea.

Species 94. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS THAMNOICUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, tumidiusculá, umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, convexis, undique minutè seriatim granulatis, per marginem superiorem crenulatis; fuscescente, lineis nigricantibus nebulosis irregularibus cingulatá.

THE SHRUB-INHABITING BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather swollen, umbilicated, whorls six in number, convex, minutely granulated throughout in rows, crenulated along the upper margin; light brown encircled with irregular clouded blackish lines.

D'ORBIGNY, Voyage dans l'Amer. Mérid. p. 290. pl. 37. f. 4 to 9.

Hab. Eastern side of the Bolivian Andes, (at the roots of bushes and, during the dry season, in the crevices of rocks); D'Orbigny, Bridges.