BULIMUS.—PLATE XV.

VALENCIENNES, Humboldt, Zool. v. ii. p. 244. pl. 55. f. 4.
Bulimus iostoma, Sowerby.
Hab. Chili and Peru (on trees); Cuming.

At the Isle of Plata Mr. Cuming found this beautiful and well known species in such abundance upon trees stripped of their leaves, that they looked as if laden with fruit. The animal yields a rich purple juice.

Species 89. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PORPHYRIUS. Bul. testá subelongato-ovalá, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus sex, concentricè rudè et irregulariter elevato-striatis, per marginem superiorem hic illic minutè crenulatis; fumeo-fuscá, striis concentricis hic illic albis.

THE PORPHYRY BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately ovate, spire acuminated, whorls six in number, concentrically, rudely, and irregularly elevately striated, and minutely crenulated here and there along the upper margin; smoky brown, concentric striae here and there white.

PFEIFFER, Zool. Pro. Soc. 1846. p. 114
Hab. ——?

The growth of this shell not being completed, it is impossible to say whether the lip would remain simple or be reflected at maturity. It is a very characteristic species and cannot easily be confounded with any other; the white ridge-like striae have a rubbed appearance and being on a dark ground have a very peculiar aspect. Mr. Cuming has no information as to its locality.

Species 90. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ZEBRA. Bul. testá ovatá, tenuiculá, imperforatá, ventricosá, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus subrotundatis lăvibus, columellá rectá, labro simplici; viridi, flamnis strigisque minoribus peculiariter undatis flavicantibus ornatá, columellá albá, labro intus castaneo-marginato.

THE ZEBRA BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather thin, imperforated, ventricose, spire acuminated, whorls somewhat rounded, smooth, columella straight, lip simple; green, ornamented with peculiarly waved flames and lesser streaks of yellow, columella white, lip edged internally with chesnut.

Buccinum zebra, Muller, Verm. Terr. et Fluv. Hist. p. 138.
Bulimus undatus, Bruguière.

Varietates.
Bulimus zigzag, Lamarck.
Bulimus princeps, Sowerby.
Hab. Nicaragua, Panama, Costa Rico, Veragua, Pernambuco, West Indies.

Few species of the genus affect a wider range of country than the present, and it is owing to the different aspects under which it is found, that the above-recorded synonymes have arisen. The beautiful variety figured in the Conchological Illustrations under the name B. princeps was collected by Mr. Cuming in the woods of Nicaragua where it inhabits the hollows of trees; the more common variety, known as the B. undatus, is found in the West Indies and Brazil, and, extremely rich in colour, at Panama and Costa Rico.