BULIMUS.

PLATE XXXIV.

Species 204. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS POPELAIRIANUS. Bul. testá ovatá, ventricosisimá, crassiusculá, subcompressá, anfractibus tumidis, supernè crenulatis, apicem versus concentricè subdistanter liratis et minutissimè granulatis; columellá arcuatá, etate supernè callosá, labro incrassato, reflexo; castaneo-brunnescente, epidermide crassá corneá brunnea, in strigis longitudinalibus acutè undatis interdum peculiariter dissolutá, indutá; aperturá lividá, labro albo.

POPELAIR'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, extremely ventricose, rather thick, somewhat compressed, whorls swollen, crenulated round the upper part, concentrically somewhat distantly ridged and minutely granulated towards the apex; columella arched, callous at the upper part with age, lip thickened, reflected; light chesnut-brown, covered with a thick brown epidermis, which is sometimes peculiarly dissolved, as it were, in longitudinal zigzag streaks; aperture livid, lip white.

Nyst, Bull. Acad. Roy. de Bruxelles, vol. xii. Extr. p. 10. pl. 4. f. 5.

Eadem. Bulimus fulguratus, Valenciennes.
Bulimus Valenciennesii, Pfeiffer.
Hab. Brazil.

This fine zigzag-marked species, distinguished under the above names by Pfeiffer and Valenciennes, is, without doubt, the same described by M. Nyst in the Transactions of the Royal Academy of Brussels in honour of the Baron de Popelair. Mr. Cuming possesses a specimen, like M. Nyst's, quite destitute of the zigzag marking, which is not a distribution of colour, nor the result of a double-membrane arrangement of the epidermis, as in the Philippine species; it has rather the appearance of being partially dissolved, as though it were occasioned by the percolation of some solvent out of the sutures, though incapable of such an explanation.

Species 205. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS EGREGIUS. Bul. elongato-oblongá, subfusiformi, umbilicatá, anfractibus convexiusculis, supernè concavis, undique creberrimè plano-granulatis, granulis in seriesbus transversis ad intervalla subdistantia, majoribus, anfractu ultimo basi angulato-compresso; aperturá oblongo-ovali, basi angulatá et canaliculatá, labro subexpanso et reflexo, marginibus lirá angustá callosá junctis; castaneo-fuscá, luteo flammatá, labro intense roseo.

THE CHOSEN BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, somewhat fusiform, umbilicated, whorls rather convex, concave round the upper part, very closely flatly granulated throughout, granules in transverse rows, at rather distant intervals, larger, last whorl angularly compressed at the base; aperture oblong-oval, angulated and channelled at the base, lip slightly expanded and reflected, margins joined by a narrow callous ridge; chesnut-brown, flamed with yellow, lip deep rose.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 67.
Bulimus hybridus, Gould (fide Pfeiffer).
Hab. Brazil, in the vicinity of Rio Janeiro; Gould.

I much doubt whether this is anything more than a variety of the B. goniostoma. I have not met with it in a state intermediate between the specimens here represented, but it is certain that the sculpture of B. egregius is precisely that of B. goniostoma in an exaggerated and more luxuriant condition, whilst the species are alike in form.

Species 206. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GONIOSTOMA. Bul. testá elongato-oblongá, fusiformi, umbilicatá, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus convexiusculis, supernè concavis, undique minutissimè et creberrimè granulatis, granulis, in seriesbus transversis ad intervalla subdistantia, paulo majoribus, anfractu ultimo basi compresso; aperturá oblongo-ovali, basi canaliculatá, labro subexpanso et reflexo, marginibus lirá callosá junctis; badiá, labro intensè roseo.

THE ANGLED-MOUTH BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, fusiform, umbilicated, spire acuminated, whorls slightly convex, concave round the upper part, very minutely and closely granulated throughout, the granules in transverse rows at rather distant intervals a little larger, last whorl compressed at the base; aperture oblong oval, channelled at the base, lip somewhat expanded and reflected, margins joined by a callous ridge; brown, lip deep rose.

Cochlogena goniostoma, Féruccac, Prodrome, No. 441.
Pupa goniostoma, Gray.
Goniostoma erubescens, Swainson.
Hab. Brazil.

Quite an isolated form of the genus, few species presenting much approximation to this in respect of its angular oblong channelled aperture, besides the preceding and one or two of smaller size, to be described hereafter, from the Province of Merida, New Granada.