BULIMUS.

PLATE XXXV.

Species 207. (Mus. (?) olim Soc. Zool. Lond.)

The accompanying figure, copied from the Zoological Journal, Tab. Supp. xxxi, represents a very remarkable species of Bulimus, deposited some years since in the Zoological Society's Museum. The shell, however, disappeared shortly afterwards from the collection, together with some other rarities, and the species has never since been obtained or heard of. It only remains therefore to copy the description also.

BULIMUS LABEO. Bul. testá ovato-productá, fusco-castaneá, apicem versus rubrá, fusco variá, anfractibus sex, ventricosis, ultimo fasciis duabus nigris, hác media, illá suturali, penultimo fasciis duabus nigris, suturalibus; columellá dente obtuso insigni; labro crassissimo, reflexo, supra pallidè castaneo, infra nigro; aperturá intus albida.

The blubber-lip Bulimus. Shell ovately produced, brown-chesnut, red towards the apex, variegated with brown, whorls six in number, ventricose, the last with two black bands, one round the middle, the other next the suture, penultimate whorl with two bands, both sutural; columella with a remarkable obtuse tooth, lip very thick, reflected, pale chesnut above, black beneath, interior of the aperture whitish.

Broderip, Zool. Journal, vol. iv. p. 222. pl. supp. xxxi. Hab. Peru.

To quote Mr. Broderip's more minute description of this remarkable lost species:—"Shell stout, long oval, of a brown chesnut colour, changing to red at the apex and on the upper whorls, which last are longitudinally striped with reddish brown towards the suture. Whorls six, ventricose; the last has a narrow band across its middle, and another of the same colour close to the suture, which is white; the last whorl but one has two narrow black bands, both near the sutures; the lower bands on the last and penultimate whorls are each thrice interrupted. On the last whorl, near the base, which is very dark, is a faint, broad, lighter coloured band. The columella is remarkable for its obtuse white tooth, surrounded by the rich dark colouring of the aperture. The right lip is of huge thickness, and much reflected: above, it is of a light chesnut colour; below, of a rich brownish japan-like black, which, particularly where it is shading off into the chesnut, gives, when the light is thrown full on it, the same kind of iridescent appearance as is seen in the Lunachella, or Fire-marble. The lower edge of this rich lip is punctured pretty thickly with dots, resembling those of Cypraea testudinaria, which seem filled with a whitish opake substance, and the formation of which has given an irregular, and almost fungus-like appearance to the reflected border of the lip, on its upper side. The interior of the aperture is white. Length three inches; breadth, measured across the body whorl, and including the lip, one inch and six-eighths.

"This fine shell, of a much firmer fabric than most land-shells, was obtained by Lieut. Maw, R.N., in a rancho (farm-house) at Toulea, about nine leagues to the eastward of Chachapoyas, in Peru, on Christmas day, 1827. It had been taken on the chacra (farm) to which the rancho belonged. The chacra is situated at the highest limit of the montana, or woody district, on the eastern side of the Andes, at an elevation of about 8000 feet above the level of the sea. The species was frequently seen by Lieut. Maw in the woods between Chachapoyas and Moyabamba. Two of a much larger size than the individual here described, were found by him alive, and given in charge to the arriero (muleteer), with a special injunction to take care of them. The arriero, supposing that they were to be prepared for breakfast, roasted them, and thus destroyed the shells.

"Spix has not mentioned this shell, and I have reason to believe that there is no other specimen in this country. Whether the species is confined within narrow limits in the almost untrodden district traversed by Lieut. Maw, will be an interesting subject for future inquiry. This enterprising traveller is the first European who has performed a journey across the continent of South America in the line of the Maranon, or Amazon River. After passing from Truxillo across the Andes to Chachapoyas he embarked upon the river in Peru, and proceeded throughout its course to Para. In the course of this expedition he collected several animals, which he has liberally presented, together with the subject of this memoir, to the Zoological Society."

Species 208. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LACUNOSUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, anfractibus subventricosis, longitudinaliter striatis, striis brevibus impressis peculiariter subtilissimè notatis, apicem versus minutè granulatis et radiatim liratis, columellá vix contortá, labro reflexo; livido-brunneá, longitudinaliter obscurè fasciatá, epidermide tenuiculá cornea indutá, labro albo.