BULIMUS.

PLATE XLIII.

Species 269. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS TRI-BALTEATUS. Bul. testá subfusiformi-ovatá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, convexis, lèvigatis, vel minutè longitudinaliter striatis; aperturá parviusculá, labro subreflexo; pallidè stramineá, zonis tribus castaneis conspicuè balteatá, labro vivide rosaceo.

THE THREE-BELTED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiformly ovate, slightly umbilicated, whorls six in number, convex, smooth, or minutely longitudinally striated; aperture rather small, lip slightly reflected, pale straw colour, conspicuously belted with three chestnut zones, lip bright pink.

Hab. Santa Fé di Bogota.

A chaste and delicately coloured species, not hitherto described, in the collection of J. Dennison Esq.

Species 270. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Dennison; Fig. c, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS KNORRI. Bul. testá fusiformi-ovatá, basi sub-angulato-productá, ampliter umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, lèvibus, sub lente transversim minutè striatis et indentatis; columellá latè reflexá, aperturá oblongo-ovali, basi attenuatá, quasi sinuatá, labro expanso, vix reflexo; stramineá, aut purpureo-fuscá, aut cærulescente-fusco obscurè fasciatá, labro intus aut roseo aut vivide croceo.

KNORR'S BULIMUS. Shell fusiformly ovate, somewhat angularly produced at the base, largely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, smooth, beneath the lens minutely transversely striated and indented; columella broadly reflected; straw colour, or purple-brown, or obscurely banded with bluish-brown, inner edge of the lip pink or deep saffron yellow.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Hel. viv., p. 95.

Hab. La Guayra.

Chiefly distinguished by a peculiar attenuation of the aperture, and by the deep pink or saffron colouring of the lip. The outer colouring of the shell is extremely variable.

Species 271. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS XANTHOSTOMA. Bul. testá fusiformi-ovatá, ampliter umbilicatá, spirá subacuminatá, anfractibus octo, lèvibus, sub lente transversim minutè striatis et indentatis, columellá latè reflexá, aperturá ovatá, labro latè expanso, vix reflexo; pallidè stramineá vel aurantiá, apice roseá, labro vivide croceo.

THE YELLOW-MOUTH BULIMUS. Shell fusiformly ovate, largely umbilicated, spire somewhat acuminated, whorls eight in number, smooth, transversely minutely striated and indented under the lens, columella broadly reflected, aperture ovate, lip broadly expanded, scarcely reflected; pale straw colour or orange, pink at the apex and bright saffron yellow at the lip.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. p. 312. pl. 40. f. 1, 2.

Hab. Bolivia and Santa Fé di Bogota.

Mainly distinguished from the preceding species by its more acuminated growth, comprising a whorl more, and less oblong form of the aperture.

Species 272. (Mus. Brit.)

BULIMUS BAIRDII. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, crassá, anfractibus septem, plano-convexis, columellá callositatis grandibus duabus munitá, aperturá parviusculá, labro incrassato, reflexo; albá fusco-tinctá, columellá labroque eburneis, aperturæ fauce croceá.

BAIRD'S BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, thick, whorls seven in number, flatly convex, columella furnished with two large callosities, aperture rather small, lip thickened, reflected; white, stained with brown, lip and columella ivory white, interior of the aperture saffron-yellow.

Hab. ——?

This very interesting shell partakes of the characters of the B. auris-bovina and auris-Midae, the latter of which, as may be seen by a comparison of the figure at Pl. 28, with one in Martyn's Universal Conchologist (sub nom. Helix fibratus), assumes very different aspects, but none with which the present agrees.

I have the pleasure to name this species in honour of Dr. Baird of the British Museum, as a trifling acknowledgment of his great diligence in sorting the specimens of the national collection, preparatory to their being critically arranged and named.

October, 1848.