BULIMUS.—PLATE XLV.

A very characteristic delicately coloured species, of roughly plicated growth.

Species 287. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LILIACEUS. Bul. testá acuminato-ovatá, tenui, diaphaná, anfractibus sex, convexis, lăvibus, vel sub lente minutissimè impresso-striatis; columellá angustè reflexá, labro tenui, acuto; pallidè crocato-aurantiá, roseo basin versus tinctá.

THE LILY-COLOURED BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate, thin, diaphanous, whorls six in number, convex, smooth, or very minutely impressly striated beneath the lens; columella narrowly reflected, lip thin, sharp; pale saffron-orange, tinged towards the base with rose.

GUILDING, MSS.?
Hab. St. Vincents, West Indies?

Mr. Cuming possesses this shell as an inhabitant of St. Vincents, accompanied with the above name, as having been given to it by the Rev. Lansdowne Guilding. It is but right, however, to add that the authenticity of this name and locality requires confirmation.

Species 288. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TENUISSIMUS. Bul. testá ovatá, tenui, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus quinque ad sex, obscurè rugoso-striatis; columellá subdepresso-reflexá, labro tenui, acuto; undique sordidè fuscescente.

THE VERY THIN BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, scarcely umbilicated, whorls five to six in number, obscurely roughly striated; columella somewhat depressly reflected, lip thin, sharp; pale dirty brown throughout.

Helix tenuissima, De Férussac, MSS.
Hab. Brazil.

One of the most common species, says M. Moricand, on the walls, in Brazil.

Species 289. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BENGALENSIS. Bul. testá conico-ovatá, tenuiculá, umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, lăvibus, basin versus sub-angulato-productis; columellá latè reflexá, labro tenui, acuto; albidá, lineá castaneá suturali, anfractu ultimo lineis duabus cingulato, columellá pallidè rosaceá, apice nigro.

THE BENGAL BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, rather thin, umbilicated, whorls six in number, smooth, slightly angularly produced towards the base; columella broadly reflected, lip thin, sharp; whitish, with a sutural chesnut line, last whorl encircled round the lower part with two chesnut lines, columella tinged with pink, apex black.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.), vol. viii. p. 233.
Hab. Bengal.

Easily recognised by its black apex and characteristic linear painting, the lower part of the whorls being encircled by two chesnut lines, one of which is concealed in all but the last by the superposition of one whorl upon the other.