BULIMUS.—PLATE XLIX.

This shell has been ascribed to the above-recorded species in Mr. Cuming's collection, and is so published here, but, it should be added, with considerable doubt.

Species 324. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS HYEMATUS. Bul. testā acuminato-ovatā, anfractibus septem, peculiariter plicato-corrugatis, apertura parviusculā, labro simplici; cinerascente-albā, aperturāe fauce roseo-purpureā.

THE FROZEN BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate, whorls seven in number, peculiarly plicately wrinkled, aperture rather small, lip simple; pale ash-white, rose-purple in the interior.

Hab. —— ?

The surface of this shell is plicately wrinkled in a manner different from any other species. Externally it is of French-white hue, purplish towards the apex, and the mouth is tinged with deep purple-rose throughout.

Species 325. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SPORADICUS. Bul. testā elongato-ovatā, pyramidali, vix umbilicatā, anfractibus octo, subleucibus, apertura parvā, labro tenui, acuto; albidā, nigricante-fusco variē lineatā et undatā.

THE SCATTERED BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, pyramidal, scarcely umbilicated, whorls eight in number, more or less smooth, aperture small, lip thin, sharp; whitish, variously lineated and waved with bluish-brown.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 271. pl. 32. f. 12 to 15.
Hab. Patagonia, Bolivia; D'Orbigny.

M. D'Orbigny describes this species to be widely distributed over South America, and very abundant.

Species 326. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TÆNIOLUS. Bul. testā cylindraceo-ovatā, ad basin rotundatā, anfractibus septem, minutē granulatis, ad suturas crenulatis, columellā reflexā, labro vix reflexo; fulvo-castaneā, ad suturas albizonatā, aperturāe fauce lividdā, peritreme albido.

THE FILLETED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically ovate, rounded at the base, whorls seven in number, minutely granulated, crenulated at the sutures, columella reflected, lip scarcely reflected, fulvous chestnut, zoned with white at the sutures, interior of the aperture livid, peritreme white.

NYST, Ext. Acad. Royale de Bruxelles, p. 9. pl. 3. f. 4. a, b.
Hab. South America.

Of a peculiar obtusely rounded growth at the base.