BULIMUS.

PLATE LII.

Species 340. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SYLVATICUS. Bul. testá elongato-turritá, gracilimá, solidiusculá, anfractibus undecim, plano-convexis, laevibus, aut minutissimè striatis, politis, apice subpapillaribus, apertura parvá, columellá labroque simplicibus; eburneá, epidermide tenui stramineá partim indutá.

THE SYLVAN BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted, very slender, rather solid, whorls eleven in number, flatly convex, smooth, polished, somewhat papillary at the apex, aperture small, lip and columella simple; ivory white, partially covered with a light straw-coloured epidermis.

WAGNER, Spix. Test. Bras. p. 11. pl. 10. f. 4.
Hab. Mexico and Brazil (in the woods); Spix.

A semitransparent ivory-white shining shell, partially covered with a slight epidermis.

Species 341. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TEREBRASTER. Bul. testá elongato-turritá, tenui, pellucidá, apice tumidá, subtruncatá, anfractibus novem undique creberrimè concentricè elevato-striatis, columellá tenui, simplicissimá, introrsum arcuatá, labro tenuissimo, acuto; corneo-luteá.

THE TERETE BULIMUS Shell elongately turreted, thin, transparent, whorls nine in number, swollen at the apex, somewhat truncated, very closely concentrically sculptured throughout with raised striae, columella thin, very simple, arched inwardly, lip very thin and sharp; horny yellow.

FERUSSAC, Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. 8. p. 234.
Bulimus haplostylus, Pfeiffer.
Hab. El Catamaija, near Loxa, Republic of Equador, South America; Hartweg.

Chiefly distinguished by the very simple structure of the columella and the raised concentric striae which have almost the appearance of fine ribs.

I am indebted to a visit to the collection of the Rev. S. C. E. Neville Rolfe of Heacham Hall, for having had my attention directed to the above recorded species of De Férussac, with which Dr. Pfeiffer does not seem to have been acquainted.

Species 342. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CALCAREUS. Bul. testá elongato-turritá, apicem versus solidiusculá, tumidá, anfractibus duodecim, longitudinaleiter subtiliter striatis, striis minutis impressis spiralibus decussatis, apertura parvá, columellá labroque simplicibus; calcareo-albá, epidermide castaneo-brunneo nitente indutá.

THE LIME-WHITE BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted, rather solid and swollen towards the apex, whorls twelve in number, longitudinally finely striated, decussated with minute spiral impressed striae, aperture small, lip and columella simple; chalk-white, covered with a shining chesnut brown epidermis.

WAGNER, Spix. Test. Bras. p. 10.
Helix calcarea, Born.
Bulimus maritimus, Spix, Deshayes.
Hab. Brazil,

M. Deshayes is correct in assigning this species to the B. maritimus of Spix, but it will be found to agree also with the Helix calcarea of Born, represented in the Mus. Cæs. Vindobonense, stripped of its rich brown chesnut epidermis, beneath which it is of a peculiar opake lime-white character. It is the largest and most solid of the turri-culated Bulimi, and has not a reflected lip.

Species 343. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS OBELISCUS. Bul. testá elongato-turritá, acuminatá, anfractibus sedecim ad octodecim, plano-convexis, subtiliter obliquè striatis, striis minutissimis spiralibus impressis decussatis, columellá labroque simplicissimis; albá, epidermide tenuiculá luteo-olivaceá indutá.

THE OBELISK BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted, acuminated, whorls eighteen in number, flatly convex, finely obliquely striated, and decussated with very minute spiral impressed striae, lip and columella very simple; whitish, covered with a rather thin yellowish epidermis.

Helix obeliscus, Moricand, Mém. Genève, vol. vi. p. 540. pl. 1. f. 4.
Hab. Near Caravalhas, Brazil; Moricand.

Distinguished by having the largest number of whorls and most sharply terete growth, whilst the epidermis is very thin, and of a light yellowish olive-colour. It should