Species 436. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS KRAUSSI. Bul. testá ovato-ventricosá, anfractibus septem, undique pulcherrimè minutè granulatis, longitudinaliter plicato-striatis, columellá strictè reflexá, labro subincrassato, non reflexo; albidá, rufo-fusco apicem versus conspicuè flammatá, et supra suturas peculiariter articulatá, columellá labrique limbo interno intensè castaneo-purpureis.

KRAUSS'S BULIMUS. Shell ovately ventricose, whorls seven in number, very beautifully minutely granulated throughout, longitudinally plicately striated, columella closely reflected, lip rather thickened, not reflected; whitish, conspicuously flamed with reddish brown towards the apex, and peculiarly articulated above the sutures with the same colour, columella and inner edge of the lip deep chesnut-purple.

PFEIFFER, Symbolae, vol. iii. p. 85. Krauss, Die Sudafrikanischen Mollusken, p. 78. pl. 5. f. 4.
Hab. Natal, South Africa (in the woods); Krauss.

This magnificent species, from a locality which has contributed little of particular interest to this genus, partakes very much of the form of B. oblongus and its congeners from South Eastern America. In colouring it is characterized by a singular articulated band around the sutures, and the lip and columella are coated with an enamel of deep chesnut-purple. In sculpture the entire surface of the shell is beautifully minutely granulated, besides being plicately striated, a character to which it is proper to direct attention from the difficulty of representing it in a figure.

The discovery of this fine species by Dr. Krauss in the woods of South Africa, gives us some idea of the richly painted snails and other animal forms that may be dwelling at this moment in the vast unexplored regions of that immense continent so fatal to European health and enterprise.

Species 437. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUBESCENS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, umbilicatá, anfractibus sex ad septem, subrotundatis, sub lente minutissimè reticulatis, columellá uniplicatá, reflexá, labro reflexo; pellucido-corneá, epidermide tenui pubescente indutá, columellá labroque albidis.

THE PUBESCENT BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, umbilicated, whorls six to seven in number, somewhat rounded, very minutely reticulated beneath the lens, columella one-plaited, reflected, lip reflected; transparent horny, covered with a thin pubescent epidermis, lip and columella whitish.

MORICAND, Mém. 3rd Supp. p. 63. pl. 5. f. 21-23.
Hab. Bahia, Brazil.

Distinguished by its minutely reticulated surface, and pubescent epidermis.

Species 438. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FRATERCULUS. Bul. testá subacuminato-ovatá, umbilicatá, tenuiculá, anfractibus sex, obliquè tenuissimè plicato-striatis, striis impressis spiralibus parallelis remotis decussatis, columellá reflexá, labro simplici; pellucido-corneá.

THE ALLIED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat acuminately ovate, umbilicated, rather thin, whorls six in number, obliquely very finely plicately striated, decussated with remote parallel spiral impressed striae, columella reflected, lip simple; transparent horny.

POTIEZ and MICHARD, Gal. de Douai, p. 141. pl. 13. f. 7, 8.
Cochlogena fraterculus, Férussac.
Hab. Guadaloupe.

The remote spiral striae which characterize this shell, are totally different in appearance from those which traverse it obliquely.

Species 439. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ORBIGNII. Bul. testá acuminato-oblongá, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, concentricè creberrimè tenui-liratis, columellá subreflexá, labro simplici; albdá.

ORBIGNY'S BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, whorls seven in number, concentrically very closely finely ridged, columella slightly reflected, lip simple; white.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 31.
Hab. Lima.

Very like the B. scalariformis in general aspect, but sufficiently distinct on comparison.