BULIMUS.—PLATE LXIX.

scarcely umbilicated, sutures impressed, whorls ten to eleven in number, very closely and finely concentrically striated, columella thin, shortly reflected, aperture slightly contracted at the upper part, lip simple; dull brownish horn colour.

HUTTON, Journ. Asiatic Soc., 1834. vol. iii. p. 84.
An eadem, Bulimus Indicus, Pfeiffer.

Hab. Bundelkhand, and all the plain Provinces of the Bengal Presidency; Benson. Point de Galle, Ceylon; Benson.

Dr. Pfeiffer's B. Indicus appears to be merely an immature state of this species.

Species 496. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS NIVICOLA. Bul. testá cylindraceo-ovatá, obesá, ventricósá, sinistrá, compressè umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, convexis, obliquè striatis, ad suturas subobscure crenulatis, columellá latiusculá, appressá, aperturá parvá, labro leviter expanso; rufo-fuscá, strigis albis obliquis hic illic irregulariter interruptis notatá, epidermide tenui lutescente indutá.

THE SNOW-INHABITING BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically ovate, stout, ventricose, sinistral, compressly umbilicated, whorls seven in number, convex, obliquely striated, somewhat obscurely crenulated at the sutures, columella rather broad, appressed, aperture small, lip slightly expanded; red-brown, marked here and there with irregularly interrupted oblique white streaks, covered with a thin yellowish epidermis.

BENSON, MSS.
Pupa sylvatica, Hutton (fide Benson.)
Hab. Liti Pass, Western Himalaya (among juniper bushes and patches of snow at nearly 14,000 feet above the level of the sea); Capt. Hutton.

Mr. Benson is of opinion that this species, distinguished by its stout cylindrical form and reversed growth, which has been upwards of twelve years in his collection, is the Pupa sylvatica of Hutton, described in McClelland's Journal for January, 1841, as being found among juniper bushes at Burrenda Pass, and of which the name is pre-occupied in the present genus to which this species strictly belongs. It is remarkable for its stout cylindrical form and reversed growth; it should, however, be remembered when referring to the plate, that the figure is very considerably magnified.

Species 497. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TURRICULA. Bul. testá cylindraceo-turritá, minutè umbilicatá, prope apicem peculiariter attenuatá, anfractibus novem, rotundatis, perobliquè creberrimè costulato-striatis, columellá latè appressá, aperturá ferè circulari; fuscescente, strigis arcuatis albis fusco-umbra tis hic illic marmoratá.

THE LITTLE TURRET BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically turreted, minutely umbilicated, peculiarly attenuated near the apex, whorls nine in number, rounded, very obliquely closely striated in a fine rib-like manner, columella broadly appressed, aperture nearly circular; light brown, marbled here and there with arched brown-shaded white streaks.

PFEIFFER, Wiegman, Archiv., 1839. vol. i. p. 351.
Hab. Cuba.

An interesting little species allied in form to the B. Gossel.

Fig. 498. (Mus. Cuming.)

This little triangular shell, of which the figure is very highly magnified, proves to be the extreme young of B. cælebs (B. solitarius, Hutton) Pl. XLVII. Sp. 301, from Western Himalaya.

For Sp. 498. see Pl. LXX.

Species 499. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS VENTROSUS. Bul. testá subpyramidalí-conicá, minutè et profundè umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, planulato-convexis, peculiariter obscurè plicato-corrugatis, columellá reflexá, aperturá ferè circulari, labro simplici; albida, basi nigricante unifasciatá.

THE VENTRICOSE BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally conical, minutely and deeply umbilicated, whorls seven in number, rather flatly convex, peculiarly obscurely plicately wrinkled, columella reflected, aperture nearly circular, lip simple; whitish, encircled with a narrow black band at the base.

Helix ventrosa, Féruccac, Prodrome, 377.
Bulimus ventricosus, Draparnaud.
Bulimus variabilis, Hartman.
Helix acuta, Webb and Berthelot.

The narrow black band which encircles the base of this shell is not an unimportant character.