Species 534. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS SUCCINCTUS. Bul. testá pyramidali-conicá, crassiusculá, haud umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, convexis, laevibus; albá, anfractibus fasciá angustá castaneá supra et infra suturas cingulatá, anfractu ultimo infra fasciá inferiori ustulato-castaneo tinctá, circa columellam intensiore.
THE UNDER-GIRT BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally conical, rather thick, not umbilicated, whorls seven in number, convex, smooth; white, whorls encircled above and below the sutures with a narrow chestnut band, last whorl stained below the lower band with burnt chestnut, darker round the umbilicus.
Hab. Philippines.
The loss of its epidermis prevents me from giving a complete description of this species; but the peculiarity of form and colouring abundantly testifies that it is distinct from any hitherto known.

Species 535. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS AMBUSTUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, laevibus, vel, sub lente, cereberrimè striatis, columellá reflexá, appressá, recedente, aperturá subdilatatá, labro simplici; albídá, strigis ustulato-fuscis, nunc latiusculis, nunc angustis, irregulariter pictá.
THE SCORCHED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, scarcely umbilicated, whorls six in number, smooth, or, beneath the lens, very closely striated, columella reflected, appressed, receding, aperture slightly dilated, lip simple; whitish, irregularly painted with burnt-brown streaks, some narrow, some rather broad.
Hab. ——?
The base of the aperture obtains a slightly dilated form, the receding growth of the columella.

Species 537. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CERUSSATUS. Bul. testá acuminato-oblongá, subampliter compressè umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, convexis, laevibus, columellá latissimá, vix reflexá, aperturá subobliquè productá, labro simplici; cretaceo-albá, strigis perpaucis undulatis fuscis intus pictá.
THE WHITE-LEAD BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, rather largely compressly umbilicated, whorls seven in number, convex, smooth, columella very broad, scarcely reflected, aperture rather obliquely produced, lip simple; chalk-white, painted interiorly with a few brown waved streaks.
Hab. ——?
Painted interiorly with scattered brown waved streaks, which show somewhat obscurely through the substance of the shell.

Species 537. (Mus. Pfeiffer.)
BULIMUS SPADICEUS. Bul. testá globoso-conicá, tenuiculá, umbilicatá, basi subplanulatá, anfractibus sex, convexo-declivibus, suturis subimpressis, subtilissimè rugoso-striatis, anfractu ultimo obsoletè carinato, columellá brevi, latè reflexá, labro simplici; intensè rufo-castaneá, aperturæ fauce iridescente.
THE DARK-BAY BULIMUS. Shell globosely conical, rather thin, umbilicated, somewhat flat at the base, whorls six in number, convexly slanting, sutures rather impressed, very finely roughly striated, last whorl obsoletely keeled, columella short, broadly reflected, lip simple; deep reddish chestnut, interior of the aperture iridescent.
MENKE, Pfeiffer, Symbolæ, vol. iii. p. 17.
Hab. Natal, South Africa (in the woods near the river Umlaas); Krauss.
One of the many interesting new species of shells collected in the vicinity of Port Natal, by the indefatigable Dr. Krauss of Stuttgart.