ACHATINA.—PLATE I.

ROISSY, Buffon de Sonnini, Hist. Moll. p. 354.
  Bulla achatina, Linnaeus.
  Buccinum achatinum, Muller.
  Buccinum variegatum, Fabius Columna.
  Bulimus achatinus, Bruguière.
  Cochlitoma achatina, Férrussac.
  Achatina perdix, Lamarck.
Hab. Sierra Leone &c., West Africa (in the woods).

This fine large species exists in great abundance in the woods of West Africa, with little variation except that the striped painting is sometimes absent, as in Pl. V.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA BICOLOR. Achat. testá subelongato-turritá, anfractibus septem, subirregulariter striatis, ad suturas indistinctè plicato-crenulatis, columellá arcuatá et contortá, fortiter truncatá, aperturá parvá; intensè purpureo-nigrá, apicem versus castaneá, columellá cærulescente-albá.

THE TWO-COLOURED ACHATINA. Shell somewhat elongately turreted, whorls seven in number, rather irregularly striated, indistinctly plicately crenulated at the sutures, columella arched and twisted, strongly truncated, aperture small; intense purple-black, chesnut towards the apex, columella bluish-white.

JAY, Cat. Mus. p. 119.
  Achatinella bicolor, Pfeiffer.
  Achatina adusta, Gould (fide Pfeiffer).
Hab. Sandwich Islands.

This shell has not the generic character of Achatinella, the species of which are more or less polished, and distinguished by a peculiar screw-like twist of the columella.

Species 5. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA COCHLEA. Achat. testá elongato-turritá, anfractibus octo, spiraliter costatis, supernè depressis, infra convexo-planis, basi subangulatis, columellá profundè arcuatá et contortá; ustulato-castaneá, zonulá albá infra suturas.

THE SCREW ACHATINA. Shell elongately turreted, whorls eight in number, spirally ribbed, depressed round the upper part, convexly flattened beneath, slightly angled at the base, columella deeply arched and twisted; burnt chesnut colour, with a narrow white zone beneath the sutures.

Hab. Peru.

This species is chiefly remarkable on account of its elongated form and spiral ribbed structure, having much the aspect of a Turritella.