ACHATINA.

PLATE II.

Species 6. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PAPYRACEA. Achat. testá oblongo-ovatá, tenui, anfractibus sex, minutè decussatim granulatis, ad suturas marginatis, columellá leviter contortá, parum truncatá; fuscescente, fusco nebulatá, columellá interdum sub-rosaceá.

THE PAPER ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, thin, whorls six in number, minutely decussately granulated, margined at the sutures, columella slightly twisted, but little truncated; light brown, clouded with darker brown, columella sometimes pinkish.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc. 1845, p. 74.
Hab. Banks of the river Nun, Africa.

A light semi-transparent shell, of which the interior is slightly iridescent.

Species 7. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA BALTEATA. Achat. testá acuminato-oblongá, subfusiformi, crassiusculá, anfractibus octo ad novem, subplicato-striatis, undique creberrimè minutè granulatis, columellá peculiariter arcuatá, et contortá, abruptè truncatá; flavescente, fasciis castaneis longitudinalibus apicem versus tinctá, fasciá spirali interruptá, subindistinctá, medio cingulatis, columellá et apertura fauce caerulescente-albá.

THE BELTED ACHATINA. Shell acuminately oblong, somewhat fusiform, rather thick, whorls eight to nine in number, slightly plicately striated, very closely minutely granulated, columella peculiarly arched and twisted, abruptly truncated; yellowish, stained towards the apex with chesnut longitudinal bands, and encircled round the middle with a rather indistinct interrupted spiral band, columella and interior of the aperture bluish-white.

Hab. Banks of the river Gambia, Africa.

Very beautifully minutely granulated throughout, and characterized by a faint spiral band, in a manner which obtains some specific importance on account of its singularity.

Species 8. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA FULICA. Achat. testá fusiformi-oblongá, sub-ventricosá, nunc tenui, nunc crassiusculá, anfractibus octo, laevibus, apicem versus obscurè granulato-striatis, ad suturas vix crenulatis, columellá subcontortá, angustè truncatá; lutescente-albá, fusco profusè latistri-gatá et nebulatá, columellá et apertura fauce albis.

THE SMOKED ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong, rather ventricose, sometimes thin, sometimes thick, whorls eight in number, smooth, obscurely granosely striated towards the apex, but slightly crenulated at the sutures, columella rather twisted, narrowly truncated; yellowish-white, profusely broadly streaked and clouded with brown, columella and interior of the aperture bluish-white.

DE FERUSSAC, Hist. Moll. pl. 124 A. f. 1.
Eadem varietates.
Helix borbonica, De Férussac.
Helix zebrina, De Férussac.
Helix Mauritiana, Quoy and Gaimard.
Achatina Couroupa, Lesson.
Hab. Mauritius.

An extremely variable species; in addition to the typical specimen here figured it has been necessary to represent (Pl. III.) a variety of smaller size which is of frequent occurrence, and one (Pl. XI.) of singular umbilicated growth. The variety Fig. 8, b. is of rather light structure, and extremely constant in this peculiarity. MM. Quoy and Gaimard distinguished it as a separate species with the name B. Mauritiana, but it is found associated with the larger kind and differs immaterially in form or sculpture. This variety is, however, a very characteristic one, and is found abundantly in some parts of Mauritius. When the Samarang touched at that island on its return to England, Sir David Barclay, an eminent collector residing at Port Louis, presented Sir Edward Belcher with some thirty or forty of them alive from his garden, scarcely differing from one another in size or painting.

In the variety figured at Pl. XI, a very remarkable one, the shell is pressed down, as it were, and the whorls are turned in a manner to form a large umbilicus. Specimens of this variety are not very uncommon, and may be seen in different stages of growth.

Species 9. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA RETICULATA. Achat. testá elongato-ovatá, subfusiformi, crassá, anfractibus novem, plicato-rugosis, et striatis, ad suturas concentricè crenatis, columellá