ACHATINA.

PLATE VI.

Species 18. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA INDOTATA. Achat. testá oblongo-ovatá, tenui, ventricósá, anfractibus septem, infernè lèvibus, supernè granoso-striatis, columellá arcuatá; lutescente-albá, strigis latis castaneis fulguratis.

THE UNENDOWED ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, thin, ventricose, whorls seven in number, smooth round the lower part, granosely striated round the upper part, columella arched; yellowish-white, marked with broad zigzag chesnut-brown streaks.

Hab. West Africa.

This shell, of which I have examined many specimens, is frequently confounded with A. zebra, from which it differs constantly in its proportions and the contour of the columella. The painting, though it assimilates in a remarkable degree with some varieties of A. zebra, has nevertheless a peculiarity of character about it.

Species 19. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA STRIATA. Achat. testá fusiformi-oblongá, anfractibus octo, longitudinaliter conspicuè plicato-striatis, ad suturas crenulatis, columellá contortá, subelongato-productá, aperturá parviusculá, angustá; opaco-albá.

THE STRIATED ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong, whorls eight in number, longitudinally conspicuously plicately striated, crenulated at the sutures, columella twisted, somewhat elongately produced, aperture rather small, narrow; opake white.

Buccinum striatum, Müller, Verm. p. 149.
Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vol. ix. p. 36. pl. 120. f. 1028-9.
Hab. Mexico.

M. Deshayes assigns the A. rosea, De Férussac, and Dr. Pfeiffer the A. Mulleri of the same author, to the old Buccinum striatum of Müller; the species under consideration seems, however, to agree far better both with Müller's description and Chemnitz's figures, excluding f. 1030, which is A. Mulleri.

It is a shell of rather solid growth, opake snowy white, with the striae raised in prominent longitudinal folds.

Species 20. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA ORNATA. Achat. testá subfusiformi-oblongá, ventricosiusculá, anfractibus octo, longitudinaliter creberrimè elevato-striatis, ad suturas angustè marginatis, columellá breviusculá, abruptè truncatá, aperturá parvá, oblongá; fulvescente, strigis brevibus fuscis irregularibus infra suturas obscurè notatá.

THE ADORNED ACHATINA. Shell somewhat fusiformly oblong, rather ventricose, whorls eight in number, longitudinally very closely elevately striated, narrowly marginated at the sutures, columella rather short, abruptly truncated, aperture small, oblong; light fulvous-brown, obscurely marked beneath the sutures with short, irregular, brown streaks.

PFEIFFER, Zietschr. fur. Malac. 1846. p. 117.
Achatina costulata, Pfeiffer (not of Adams).
Hab. New Granada.

Curiously, but obscurely, marked with short scattered streaks striking out of the sutures.

Species 21. (Mus. Benson.)

ACHATINA KRAUSSI. Achat. testá oblongo-ovatá, anfractibus septem, parum striatis aut decussatis, columellá arcuatá et contortá; nigricastaneá, strigis angustis albidis remotè fulguratis, columellá et aperturá fauce cæruleo-albis.

KRAUSS'S ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls seven in number, but little striated or decussated, columella arched and twisted; blackish-chesnut, marked with distant narrow white zigzag streaks, columella and interior of the aperture bluish-white.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 55. Conch. Syst. vol. ii. pl. 179. f. 19.
Hab. Port Natal, Coast of Africa.

Named in honour of Dr. Krauss of Stuttgart, whose researches in South Africa have been productive of a valuable work on the Mollusca of that district.