ACHATINA.

Plate VIII.

Species 25. (Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA MULLERI. Achat. testá fusiformi, spirá elongatá, anfractibus octo, longitudinaliter cereberrimè plicato-striatis, ad suturas crenulatis, columellá subcontortá, conspicuè truncatá; pellucido-fuscescente, strigis castaneis remotis irregularibus pictá.

MULLER'S ACHATINA. Shell fusiform, spire elongated, whorls eight in number, longitudinally very closely plicately striated, crenulated at the sutures, columella slightly twisted, conspicuously truncated; light transparent brown, painted with irregular distant chesnut streaks.

FERUSSAC, Prodrome, p. 50. No. 357.
Achatina dactylus, Broderip.
Hab. Tumaco, West Coast of South America.

Dr. Pfeiffer refers this shell to the Buccinum striatum of Muller, but there is no mention of the characteristic striped painting in the description of that author; neither is there any account of the delicate tinge of yellow or rose colouring which characterizes the species referred to it by M. Deshayes, namely, the Achatina rosea. There is no doubt, however, of the shell under consideration being identical with that figured by Chemnitz under the head of B. striatum in Conch. Cab. vol. ix. pl. 120. f. 1030.

Species 26. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA SOWERBYANA. Achat. testá ovato-fusiformi, tenuiculá, subventricosá, anfractibus sex ad septem, undique pulcherrimè granoso-decussatis, ad suturas crenulatis, columellá valde arcuatá, leviter contortá, conspicuè truncatá; diaphano-fuscescente, nitente, strigis longitudinalibus castaneis angustis frequentibus irregulariter pictá.

SOWERBY'S ACHATINA. Shell ovately fusiform, somewhat thin, rather ventricose, whorls six to seven in number, everywhere very beautifully granosely decussated, crenulated at the sutures, columella much arched, slightly twisted, conspicuously truncated; bright transparent brown, shining, irregularly painted with frequent narrow chesnut streaks.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846. p. 32.
Hab. Mexico.

A fine large delicately bright transparent species of the Glandina section of the genus, prettily granulated throughout.

Species 27. (Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA LIGNARIA. Achat. testá oblongo-cylindraceá, anfractibus octo, granulis oblongis undique exsculptis, ad suturas rudè crenulatis, columellá abruptè truncatá, aperturá parviusculá; fuscescente-spadiceá, strigis angustis saturationibus subobscure et irregulariter notatá.

THE WOODEN ACHATINA Shell oblong-cylindrical, whorls eight in number, sculptured throughout with oblong granules, rudely crenulated at the sutures, columella abruptly truncated, aperture rather small; light brown bay, somewhat obscurely and irregularly marked with streaks of a darker colour.

Hab. ——?

This fine species from the collection of J. Dennison, Esq., approaches nearer to A. Sowerbyana than to any hitherto described.