ACHATINA.

PLATE VII.

Species 22. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA MURREA. Achat. testá pyramidali-conicá, apice tumidá, basi subplanatá et angulatá, anfractibus sex, laevibus, politis, ad suturas minutissimè marginatis, columellá vix truncatá; pallidè luteá, maculis cæruleo-viridibus oblongo-quadratis undatis pulcherrimè tessellatá, interdum vividè luteá, immaculatá, apice roseo-incarnatá.

THE PORCELAIN ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally conical, swollen at the apex, somewhat flattened and angular at the base, whorls six in number, smooth, polished, very minutely marginated at the sutures, columella slightly truncated; pale yellow, very prettily tessellated with waved oblong-square blue-green spots, sometimes bright yellow, unspotted, tinged with flesh-pink at the apex.

Hab. —— ?

A pretty species, clearly distinct from the A. fasciata.

Species 23. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA ZEBRA. Achat. testá subelongato-oblongá, crassiusculá, anfractibus octo, granoso-striatis, granis in anfractu ultimo evanidis, columellá subcontortá; intensè castaneá, strigis angustis albis crebrè fulguratá, aperture fauce cærulescente-albá.

THE ZEBRA ACHATINA. Shell elongately oblong, rather thick, whorls eight in number, granosely striated, grains disappearing on the last whorl, columella slightly twisted; very dark chesnut, marked with close narrow zigzag white streaks, interior of the aperture bluish-white.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. viii. p. 295.
Buccinum achatina, pars, Muller.
Bulla zebra, Chemnitz.
Bulimus zebra, Bruguière.
Cochlitoma zebra, Féussac.
Hab. Caffraria, South Africa.

It is curious to observe in this species, that the longitudinal streaks become gradually narrower and more frequent as the shell increases in growth. For a species commonly placed with this in collections, in which the stripes are broader and much fewer in number, and which differs manifestly in form, see the preceding Plate, Sp. 18.

Species 24. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA CARINATA. Achat. testá pyramidali-conicá, basi plano-angulatá, anfractibus sex ad septem, plano-convexis, sub lente minutissimè decussatis, suturis sub-excavatis, columellá vix truncatá; pellucido-albá, fasciá opaco-albá ad suturas et, in anfractu ultimo, ad angulum.

THE KEELED ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally conical, flatly angled at the base, whorls six to seven in number, flatly convex, under the lens very minutely decussated, sutures somewhat hollowed, columella scarcely truncated; transparent white, encircled at the sutures with a band of opake white, continued round the angle of the last whorl.

PFEIFFER, Symbolæ, vol. iii. p. 90.
Hab. —— ?

An interesting species, distinguished by its angular structure and delicate milk-white sutural band.