ACHATINA.

Plate X.

Species 34. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PICTA. Achat. testá conico-ovatá, spirae suturis impressis, anfractibus septem, laevibus, politis, vel obliquè tenuissimè striatis, columellá brevi, vix truncatá, aperturá parvá, luteá, maculis castaneis nebulatis, tæniá duplicatá, medio cinctá, maculis viridibus grandibus hic illic ornatá.

THE PAINTED ACHATINA. Shell conically ovate, sutures of the spire impressed, whorls seven in number, smooth, polished, or obliquely very finely striated, columella short, scarcely truncated, aperture small; yellow, encircled round the middle with a double fillet of chestnut clouded spots, and ornamented here and there with large green blotches.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 56. Conch. Syst. vol. ii. p. 87. pl. 177. f. 5.

Hab. Island of Cuba.

Very richly painted, but in a different style from either of the following species.

Species 35. (Fig. a, b, c; and Pl. IX. Fig. 29, Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA FASCIATA. Achat. testá subpyramidalí-ovatá, solidiusculá, anfractibus octo, plano-convexis, laevibus, politis, columellá brevinsculá, callosá, vix truncatá, aperturá parvá, labro crenato; albá, fasciis latis luteis, maculis viridibus quadrato-oblongis obliquis ornatá, lineis viridibus cingulatá; interdum albá, viridi lineatá, apice roseo.

THE BANDED ACHATINA. Shell somewhat pyramidally ovate, rather solid, whorls eight in number, flatly convex, smooth, polished, columella rather short, callous, scarcely truncated, aperture small, lip crenated; white, ornamented with broad yellow bands painted with large oblique square-oblong green blotches, encircled with green lines; sometimes white, with the green lines only, apex pink.

SWAINSON, Zool. Illus., vol. iii. pl. 162.
Buccinum fasciatum, Muller.
Bulla fasciata, Chemnitz.
Bulimus vexillum, Bruguière.
Achatina vexillum, Lamarck,
Cochlitoma vexillum, Férussac.
Achatina lineata, Valenciennes.

Varietates.
Achatina crenata, Swainson.
Achatina pallida, Swainson.
Achatina Anais, Lesson.
Bulimus zebra, D'Orbigny.
Hab. Island of Cuba, West Indies.

It will be seen by the accompanying figures and the one referred to in the preceding plate, that the painting of this species is extremely variable; one portion of the colour, however, the fine green lines which encircle the shell, is rarely absent, and it is curious to remark that where these reach the lip, there is a notch corresponding to each line.

Species 36. (Fig. a, b, c, Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA VIRGINEA. Achat. testá pyramidali-ovatá, solidiusculá, anfractibus septem ad octo, laevibus, politis, columellá arcuatá, brevi, truncatá; aperturá parvá; cærulescente-albá, lineis fasciisque angustis miniatis viridibus et nigris variè cingulatá, columellá nunc albá, nunc intensè roseá.

THE VIRGIN ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally ovate, rather solid, whorls seven to eight in number, smooth, polished, columella small, short, truncated; aperture small; bluish-white, variously encircled with vermillion green and black lines and narrow bands, columella sometimes white, sometimes deep rose.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshaye's edit.) vol. viii. p. 299.
Bulla virginea, Linnaeus.
Buccinum virgineum, Muller.
Lignus virgineus, De Montford.
Bulimus virgineus, Bruguière.
Cochlitoma virginea, Férussac.
Achatina vittata, Swainson.
Hab. Cuba &c., West Indies.

There is little variation in the style of painting of this well-known species although the colours occasionally differ. They are mostly very brilliant and the shell has all the appearance of painted porcelain.