ACHATINA.

PLATE XI.

Species 29. (Mus. Brit.)

ACHATINA TINCTA. Achat. testá acuminato-oblongá, crassiusculá, anfractibus septem ad octo, laevibus, ad suturas marginatis, columellá contortá, subangustè truncatá; flavidá, castaneo profusè tinctá, apice purpurascente, columellá et aperturá fauce cærulescente-albis.

THE STAINED ACHATINA. Shell acuminately oblong, rather thick, whorls seven to eight in number, smooth, marginated at the sutures, columella twisted, rather narrowly truncated; yellow, profusely stained with chestnut, columella and interior of the aperture bluish-white.

REEVE, Conch. Syst. vol. ii. pl. 179. f. 18.
Hab. ——?

The painting of this shell is very characteristic, and the outer surface of it is further distinguished by its smooth porcelain appearance. It is an extremely rare species; the specimen represented in the 'Conchologia Systematica' is in Mr. Cuming's collection, and that here figured from the British Museum was formerly in the Tankerville collection, afterwards in that of W. J. Broderip, Esq.

Species 37. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA SEMISULPTA. Achat. testá subfusiformi-oblongá, anfractibus septem, supernè granato-striatis, infernè laevibus, columellá arcuatá, subdepresso-truncatá; albidá, castaneo interruptè fulguratá.

THE HALF-SCULPTURED ACHATINA. Shell somewhat fusiformly oblong, whorls seven in number, granosely striated round the upper part, smooth round the lower, columella arched, rather depressly truncated; whitish, streaked in an interrupted manner with chestnut.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845. p. 74.
Hab. Benguela, West Africa.

All Mr. Cuming's examples of this species are distinguished by the same broken interrupted style of painting with which this is characterized.

Species 38. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA COLUMNA. Achat. testá elongato-turrítá, anfractibus septem, subrudè granoso-striatis, suturis depresso-concavis, columellá contortá, callosá, plicato-productá, aperturá parvá; flavidá, castaneo undiquè fulguratá, columellá et aperturá fauce cærulescente-albis.

THE COLUMN ACHATINA. Shell elongately turreted, whorls seven in number, rather rudely granosely striated, sutures depressly concave, columella twisted, callous, produced in the form of a plait, aperture small; yellow, streaked throughout with narrow chestnut flames, columella and interior of the aperture bluish-white.

BRUGUIERE, Encyclopédie Méthodique, vol. i. f. 332.
Buccinum columna, Muller.
Limax flammeus, Martyn.
Helix columna, Chemnitz.
Hab. Prince's Islands, West Africa.

It is somewhat remarkable that no species has been discovered to approximate to this. Lamarck, believing it to be an inhabitant of freshwater, placed it originally in the genus Lymnea.