ACHATINA.—PLATE XIV.

Helix (Cochlicopa) Dominicensis, Féruccac.
Bulimus maculatus, Bruguière.
Achatina fusco-lineata, Lamarck.
Polyphemus Bruguieraeus, Bowditch.
Glandina maculata, Beck.
Hab. West Indies.

The varicose peculiarity of growth which characterizes the A. leucozonias, is developed in a less prominent degree in this species, the contrast of painting being reversed. The A. leucozonias, is of a dark chestnut-brown marked with longitudinal white stripes, in places where the white-edged lip has been matured after the manner of a varix. In the present species the shell is of a uniform orange-yellow, and the periodical maturity of the lip is indicated in its course of growth, about four to five times in a whorl, by a broad chestnut stripe.

Species 57. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PERUVIANA. Achat. testá fusiformi-oblongá, spirae suturis peculiariter profundè excavatis, anfractibus subplano-convexis, longitudinaliter creberrimè costulatis, interstitiis transversim sulcato-striatis, columellá contortá, et abruptè truncatá, aperturá oblongá; albá, flammis undatis longitudinalibus, lineolisque obliquis rufo-fuscis, conspicuè pictá.

THE PERUVIAN ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong, sutures of the spire peculiarly deeply excavated, whorls rather flatly convex, longitudinally very closely finely ribbed, interstices marked transversely with grooved striæ, columella twisted and abruptly truncated, aperture oblong; white, conspicuously painted with red-brown longitudinal flames and oblique lines.

Lamarck, Anim. s. vert. (Deshayes' ed.) vol. viii. p. 301.
Helix (Cochlicopa) pretiosa, Féruccae, Hist. Moll. pl. 135. f. 4.
Hab. Peru; Dombey (fide Lamarck).

This species belongs apparently to a distinct type, the chief peculiarity of which resides in the deeply grooved formation of the sutures. It is of rather solid texture with somewhat the aspect of a marine shell, finely ribbed longitudinally, the ribs turning over the upper edge of the whorls into the sutural depression. In painting it is richly marked with red brown stripes, crossed obliquely with fine lines of the same colour.

Species 58. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA GLABRA. Achat. testá acuminato-ovatá, tenuiculá, anfractibus septem ad octo, subtilissimè longitudinaliter striatis, glabris, nitidis, columellá brevi, arcuatá et contortá; fulvescente cornea, strigis fuscis remotis, suturis anfractuum medio descendentibus, ornatá.

THE SMOOTH ACHATINA. Shell acuminately ovate, rather thin, whorls seven to eight in number, very finely longitudinally striated, smooth, shining, columella short, arched and twisted; light fulvous horn-colour, ornamented with distant brown streaks, descending from the sutures to the middle of the whorls.

Pfeiffer, (Glandina) Symbolae, vol. iii. p. 90.
Hab. Island of Porto Rico.

This species has a smooth glazed appearance, but not arising from the lustre of a horny cuticle, such as that which characterizes the A. Lattrei and its congeners.