DOLIUM.

PLATE II.

Species 2. (Mus. Brit.)

DOLIUM MELANOSTOMA. Dol. testá subgloboso-turbinatá, umbilicatá, ventricosissimá, spirá subprominulá, anfractibus septem, transversim costatis, costis subdepresso-convexis, interstitiis lirá parvá subsidente undique impletis, columellá latè expansá, aperturá amplá, basi subprofunde emarginatá; lutescente-albidá, laevigatá, nitente, columellá intensè nigricante-brunnea.

THE BLACK-MOUTH TUN. Shell somewhat globosely turbinated, umbilicated, very ventricose, spire rather prominent, whorls seven in number, transversely ribbed, ribs somewhat depressly convex, interstices filled throughout with a small ridge, columella widely expanded, aperture large, rather deeply emarginated at the base; yellowish white, smooth, shining, columella deep blackish brown.

JAY, Cat. Mus. p. 124. pl. 8-9.
Hab. Friendly Islands; Jay.

The shell here represented, from the British Museum, belonged to the late Earl of Tankerville, and is the individual specimen noted by Mr. Sowerby in his well-known Catalogue of that nobleman's collection, as Dolium galea var. d. I believe it to be distinct from that species, which is an inhabitant of the Mediterranean, and to be identical with a shell from the Friendly Islands in the collection of Dr. Jay of New York, described by that gentleman, under the name above recorded, in his published 'Catalogue' of 1839. "This splendid shell," says Dr. Jay, "was brought to Nantucket by a whaler from the Friendly Islands, where it was obtained by the natives in diving for shells."

The D. melanostoma is chiefly distinguished from the D. galea in having a more prominent spire and a regularly developed ridge throughout the interstices between the ribs, which have a lighter and more polished surface. The base of the shell beneath the umbilicus is characterized by its numerous concentric striae, whilst in the D. galea it is ridged in a longitudinal direction; and the rich dark colouring of the columellar lip appears also to be a character of the species.

December, 1848.