DOLIUM.

PLATE III.

Species 3. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM FIMBRIATUM. Dol. testá globosá, ventricosissimá, vix umbilicatá, spirae suturis impressis, anfractibus sex, conspicuè costatis, costis plus minusve numerosis, quarum præcipuis quatuordecim ad quindecim, columellá contortá, labro externo fimbriato et dentato; fulvescente-albá, costis rufescente-fusco maculatis, aperturae fauce fuscá.

THE FIMBRIATED TUN. Shell globose, very ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, sutures of the spire impressed, whorls six in number, conspicuously ribbed, ribs more or less numerous, the chief of which are about fourteen in number, columella twisted, outer lip fimbriated and toothed; fulvous white, ribs spotted with reddish-brown, interior of the aperture brown.

SOWERBY, Genera of Shells, f. 2.
Le Minjac, Adanson.
Dolium tessellatum (pars), Enc. Méth.
An eadem var.?
Dolium marginatum, Philippi.
Hab. Bay of Manila, Island of Luzon, Philippines; Cuming.

M. Deshayes notices as a character by which to distinguish this from the following species, that it has about fourteen ribs, whilst the D. maculatum has mostly nine. I find this observation may be mainly relied on, for when the ribs are really more numerous, as in the magnificent specimen represented at Fig. 3 a, there are still from fourteen to fifteen principal ribs, the rest being manifestly inferior both in colour and development. The species is further distinguished by the columella being abruptly twisted and by the outer lip becoming strongly fimbriated on arriving at maturity.

M. Adanson named this shell after the Minjac or Muntjak, a spotted animal of the deer tribe, and M. Deshayes proposes to use this for the specific title. I do not, however, see how a common name of this kind can be adopted with propriety in the Latin.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM MACULATUM. Dol. testá ovatá, ventricosissimá, vix umbilicatá, spirá suturis subimpressis, anfractibus sex, transversim costatis, costis ad novem, distantibus, lirá subobscurá interveniente, columellá subrectá, vix contortá, labro externo simplici; cærulescente-albá, costis rufescente-fusco maculatis, aperturae fauce fuscá.

THE SPOTTED TUN. Shell ovate, very ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, sutures of the spire somewhat impressed, whorls six in number, encircled by about nine distant ribs having a somewhat obscure ridge running between them, columella nearly straight, scarcely twisted, outer lip simple; bluish-white, ribs spotted with reddish-brown, interior of the aperture brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 140.
Buccinum dolium, Linnaeus.
Dolium tessellatum (pars), Enc. Méth.
Hab. Eastern Seas.

This is a shell of lighter growth than the preceding species, the ribs are less numerous and consequently more distant from each other, the columella is straighter, and the lip simple.