DOLIUM.

PLATE V.

Species 7. (Fig. a, Mus. Brit. Fig. b, Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM VARIEGATUM. Dol. testá ovato-globosá, interdum maximá, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, transversim costatis, costis sedecim ad septendecim, subprominulis, interstitiis excavatis, superioribus lirá parvá interveniente; albidá, fulvo-rufescente tinctá, costis aliis rufo-fusco maculatis, aliis immaculatis, aperturae fauce plus minus intensè aurantiá.

THE VARIEGATED TUN. Shell ovately globose, sometimes very large, umbilicated, whorls seven in number, transversely ribbed, ribs from sixteen to seventeen in number, rather prominent, interstices hollowed, upper ones with a small intervening ridge; whitish, stained with fulvous red, some ribs spotted with reddish-brown, some unspotted, interior of the aperture more or less deeply stained with orange.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 143.
Dolium Kieneri, Philippi.
Hab. North Coast of New Holland; Jukes.

There is little doubt of this species being the true D. variegatum of Lamarck, who notifies the locality New Holland, from whence a magnificent series may be seen in the British Museum, including specimens even larger than any to be found of the D. galea. They were collected by Mr. Jukes during his recent expedition to that country, and are from Torres Straits.

The D. Chinense, which Dr. Philippi refers to Lamarck's D. variegatum, is no doubt the Chinese analogue of this species; its plan of growth and style of colouring are the same, and it differs only in being more globose and of lighter structure; still it is not Lamarck's type, and when named by Chemnitz Buccinum Australe seu Chinense, he may have had specimens from both localities before him.

Species 8. (Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM COSTATUM. Dol. testá ovato-oblongá, ventricosá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, supernè plano-depressis, subcanaliculatis, transversim costatis, costis tredecim ad quatuordecim, prominulis, distantibus, interstitiis latis, concavis, lèvibus; aperturá oblongá, labro fimbriato et dentato; cæruleo-albicante, costis fulvo-fuscescentibus, apicem versus obscurè maculatis, apice nigricante.

THE RIBBED TUN. Shell ovately oblong, ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, flatly depressed and slightly channelled round the upper part, transversely ribbed, ribs thirteen to fourteen in number, rather prominent, distant, interstices broad, concave, smooth; aperture oblong, lip fimbriated and toothed; bluish-white, ribs light fulvous brown, and obscurely spotted towards the apex, which is blackish.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 144.
Dolium fasciatum, var., Kiener.
Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

This bold species is amply distinguished from the D. fasciatum, by the prominent and remote development of the ribs, and absence of banded colouring.