DOLIUM.

PLATE VIII.

Species 13. (Fig. 13. b, and 13. c, Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM CUMINGII. Dol. testá globoso-ovatá, tenui, ventricósá, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, transversim multicostatis, costis depresso-planis, confertis, interstitiis linearí-sulcatis, columellá subcontortá, labro simplici; fulvo-castaneá, maculis fuscis et albis fasciatim peculiäriter nebulatá.

CUMING'S Tun. Shell globosely ovate, thin, ventricose, umbilicated, whorls seven in number, transversely many-ribbed, ribs depressly flattened, close-set, interstices linearly grooved, columella slightly twisted, lip simple; fulvous chesnut, peculiarly clouded in a banded manner with brown and white spots.

HANLEY, MSS. Mus. Cuming.
Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

This is unquestionably distinct both from the D. olearium and Deshayesii. Characterized in great measure by its globose form, it is also distinguished by its style of painting which is very peculiar, and, as in all the species of the genus, a constant and not unimportant feature.

Species 14. (Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM OLEARIUM. Dol. testá ovatá, ventricosíssimá, umbilicatá, spiráe suturis canaliculatis, anfractibus septem, transversim costatis, costis plano-depressis, latiusculis, confertis, interstitiis linearí-sulcatis, labro simplici; fulvo-castaneá, maculis conspicuís albis aspersá.

THE OIL-JAR Tun. Shell ovate, extremely ventricose, umbilicated, sutures of the spire channelled, whorls seven in number, transversely ribbed, ribs flatly depressed, rather broad, close set, interstices linearly grooved, lip simple; fulvous chesnut, sprinkled with conspicuous white spots.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. vol x. p. 140.
Buccinum olearium, Bruguière.
Hab. Ceylon.

This is the Buccinum olearium of Bruguière, but not of Linnaeus, which accounts for his remark in the Encyclopédie Méthodique: "J'ignore ce que Linné a entendu par les mots 'sulcis obtusis lineolá elevatá interstinctis,' qu'il a employé dans la différence spécifique de ce Buccin, puisque ses côtes, de même que ses sillons, n'offrent pas des lignes élevées." The shell upon which Linnaeus founded his Buccinum olearium, preserved in the museum of the Linnaean Society of London, proves on examination to be nothing more than a very young specimen of the D. galea, in the early growth of which species there is always a fine elevated line in the interstices of the upper ribs.

From an observation of two young individuals of the Lamarckian Dolium olearium in the same collection, I am inclined to think Linnaeus' Bulla canaliculata, which has never been identified, is this shell; there is, however, one point in which the description of that species in the 'Systema Naturae' does not agree, namely, in respect of form, "cylindrica." For this reason the name olearium, with the above explanation, may be retained.

Species 15. (Fig. 13. a, Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM DESHAYESII. Dol. testá subgloboso-oblongá, vix umbilicatá, spirá nunquam canaliculatá, anfractibus sex, spiráliter linearí-sulcatis, labro simplici; pallide fulvescente-castaneá, maculis conspicuís albis, fusco-umbraís, plerumque binís, subdistantibus fasciatim pictá.

DESHAYES' Tun. Shell somewhat globosely oblong, scarcely umbilicated, spire never channelled, whorls six in number, spirally linearly grooved, lip simple, pale fulvous chesnut, painted with bands of rather distant conspicuous white spots, shaded with brown, and ranging mostly in pairs.

Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

A comparison of this shell with the Lamarckian Dolium olearium enables me to confirm the accuracy of M. Deshayes' observation (Anim. sans vert. nov. edit. vol. x. p. 140. note) to the effect, that the specimen figured for that species by Mr. Solerby in his 'Genera of Shells,' and by myself, from the same engraving, in 'Conchologia Systematica,' is distinct from it. The sutures of the spire are not channelled, and there is a singular peculiarity in the style of colouring, being painted with white blotches, shaded with brown, ranging two and two in distant bands, or in bands longitudinally. The figure in 'The Genera' gives a characteristic view of the back of the species.