Species 2. (Mus. Brit.)

CASSIS CORNUTA. Cass. testá maxima, ovatá, ventricosa, spirá depressá, apice acutá; anfractibus univaricosis, supernè angulatis, fortiter tuberculatis, tuberculis erecto-conicis, infra cingulis duobus callosis obsoletè tuberculatis, tuberculis ætate crescentibus, cingulorum interstitiis scrobiculis parvis, hexagonis, nunc regularibus, nunc irregularibus, creberrimè reticulatis; columellá concavo-depressá, labroque externo rudè et fortiter rugatis, labris plus minusve plano-expansis et supernè junctis; lacteá, ferrugineo-rufescente hic illic pallidè tinctá, varicibus cingulisque fusco grandimaculatis, columellá et aperturá fulvo-citrinis, rugis albicantibus, scrobiculis sub encaustum peculiariter opaco-albis.

THE HORNED HELMET. Shell very large, ovate, ventricose, spire depressed, sharp at the apex; whorls one-varicose, angulated round the upper part, strongly tubercled, tubercles erectly conical, two callous obsoletely tubercled belts beneath, the tubercles increasing with age, interstices between the belts closely reticulated with small hexagonal pits, sometimes regular, sometimes irregular; columella concavely depressed, and, with the outer lip, rudely and strongly wrinkled, lips more or less flatly expanded, joined at the upper part: cream-coloured, palely tinged here and there with rusty red, varices and belts stained with large brown blotches, columella and aperture fulvous citron, wrinkles whitish, pits beneath the enamel peculiarly opake-white.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 20.
Buccinum cornutum, Linnaeus.
Cassidea cornuta, Bruguière.
Eadem, Cassis labiata, Chemnitz.
Hab. Moluccas, West Indies, Pacific Islands.

This fine species, the largest of the genus, grows to an immense size, yet examples are not unfrequently met with, of comparatively small dimensions, bearing all the characters of the adult shell, except in having little indication of tubercles on the two central callous belts. The interstices between these, and other parts of the surface, are distinguished in all stages of growth by a beautiful honey-combed structure, consisting of a number of hexagonal cells, which in that part of the body-whorl overlaid by the columellar lip, become filled up with opake-white matter. The tubercles along the upper angle of the whorls are always very prominent, and sometimes rather compressed.

The C. cornuta assumes two very distinct varieties of form: one extremely broad and ventricose at the base of the spire, attaining rather the larger size; the other of a more oblong form, in which the lip is more widely expanded into a flattened plane. It is the latter variety of which Chemnitz has given two admirable figures in the Conchylien Cabinet, vol. ix. pl. 184 and 185, under the name Cassis labiata.

Species 3. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS SEMIGRANOSA. Cass. testá ovatá, basi contractá, spirá acuminatá, apice subpapillari, anfractibus evaricosis, rotundatis, laevibus, basi striatis, supernè granorum seriebus quinque vel sex conspicuè cingulatis, granis sub plicas descendentes; columellá tenuiplicatá, basi truncatá, labro reflexo, laevigato; albida, fulvo-ferrugineo plus minusve tinctá.

THE HALF-GRAINED CASSIS. Shell ovate, contracted at the base, spire acuminated, somewhat papillary at the apex; whorls destitute of varices, rounded, smooth, striated at the base, encircled round the upper part with five or six conspicuous rows of grains, which are upon descending folds; columella finely plicated, truncated at the base, lip reflected, smooth; whitish, more or less stained with fulvous rust colour.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 37.
Hab. Van Dieman's Land.

The rows of grains which are ranged along the summit of the descending folds round the upper portion of the whorls are extremely characteristic, the columella is peculiarly short and truncated, and the smoothness of the outer lip is an unusual feature. The shell is usually stained with a kind of fulvous rust colour, whilst the apex is of ivory whiteness with a somewhat papillary aspect.