CASSIS.

PLATE II.

Species 4. (Fig. a, b, c, d, Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS DECUS S A T A. Cass. testā ovatā, compressiusculā, spirā subacuminatā, apice acutā; anfractibus univari- cosis, striis elevatiusculis longitudinalibus, incisisque transversis undique decussatis, praecipue ad spiram; varicibus supernē peculiariter bi-tri-dentato-spinosis, columellā fortiter plicato-rugatā; livido-cærulescente, maculis quadratis vel strigis fulcis longitudinaliter undatā, maculis strigisve super varices et aperturāe fauce intensē castaneo-rufis.

THE DECUS S A T E D H E L M E T. Shell ovate, rather compressed, spire somewhat acuminated, sharp at the apex; whorls one-varicose, decussated throughout with rather elevated longitudinal and engraved transverse striae, especially on the spire; varices peculiarly two-three-dentately spinous at the upper part; columella strongly plicately wrinkled; livid blue, longitudinally waved with fulvous streaks or square spots, interior of the aperture and spots or streaks upon the varices deep chesnut-red.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 29.
Buccinum decussatum, Linnaeus.
Cassidea decussata, Bruguière,
Hab. —— ?

In this species the striped and tessellated designs of painting which charaterize the C. areola and undata are united, the varieties being unaccompanied by any difference of form or sculpture. The chief peculiarity in the sculpture of C. decussata, the same in both varieties, consists in the longitudinal striae being raised, whilst the transverse striae are engraved; in other words, the former are ridges, the latter grooves. Another feature to be remarked is that the varices, including that which forms the reflected margin of the aperture, are armed at the summit, next the spire, with two or three dentate spines which in all other species, where they occur, are at the base.

M. Deshayes remarks in a note on C. decussata (Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 9.) that Lamarck in referring to Martini's figures (Conch. Cab. vol. 2. f. 360-1, and 367-8.) has confounded a young specimen of his C. zebra (C. undata) with it. This is a mistake: Lamarck was perfectly correct, and so was Martini, who, although he describes each of these shells separately, refers them both to the Buccinum decussatum of Linnaeus. They represent truly the species in different states, and perhaps the most extreme.

Species 5. (Mus. Brit.)

CASSIS M A D A G A S C A R I E N S I S. Cass. testā sub-trigono-ovatā, ventricosā, elevato-rotundatā, anfractibus longitudinaliter subirregulariter striatis, transversim superficialiter sulcatis, triseriatim tuberculatis, tuberculis supremis grandibus, prominentibus; columellā profusē plicato-rugatis, rugis hic illic bifurcatis, labro latissimē expanso, marginibus conjunctis, labro externo intus conspicuē dentato; cæruleo-albicante, facie encausticā rufescente-incarnatā, dentibus rugisque albis, interstitiis intensē purpureo-castaneis.

THE M A D A G A S C A R H E L M E T. Shell somewhat triangularly ovate, ventricose, elevately rotundate, whorls longitudinally somewhat irregularly striated, transversely superficially grooved, encircled with three rows of tubercles, of which the uppermost are large and prominent; columella profusely plicately wrinkled, wrinkles here and there bifurcated, lip very widely expanded, margins joined, outer lip conspicuously toothed within; bluish white, enamelled face reddish flesh-coloured, teeth and wrinkles white, interstices intense purple-chesnut.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 20.
Hab. Madagascar.

This fine species may be recognised by the delicate flesh tint of its enamelled face and deep purple-chesnut colouring of the lip and columella; it attains almost as large a size as the C. cornutus. In sculpture it differs from that species in having the surface transversely rather superficially grooved, not cancellated.

August, 1848.