CASSIS.

PLATE IV.

Species 9. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS SPINOSA. Cass. testá oblongo-ovatá, tenuiculá, ventricósá, basi attenuatá, spirá depresso-convexá, apice acutá, anfractibus univaricosis, transversim obsoletè sulcatis, spirá basique longitudinaliter tenuiplicatis, supernè nodorum seriebus tribus, quarum superiore minutá moniliformi, cingulatis; columellá concavá, plicato-rugatá, rugis brevibus irregularibus, labro externo rudè dentato, serie nodorum; lacteá, fulvo-spadiceo pallidè tinctá, fasciis quinque aut pluribus, maculis semilunaribus saturatióribus albo articulatis, cingulatá.

THE SPINOUS CASSIS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather thin, ventricose, attenuated at the base, spire depressly convex, sharp at the apex, whorls one-varieose, transversely obsoletely grooved, longitudinally finely plicated on the spire and at the base, encircled with three rows of nodules round the upper part of which the uppermost row is minute and necklace-like; columella concave, plicately wrinkled, wrinkles short and irregular, outer lip rudely dentated, with the addition of a row of nodules; cream-coloured, palely stained with fulvous bay, and encircled by four or more bands of semilunar darker bay spots articulated with white.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 23, note.
Buccinum spinosum, Gronovius, Zooph. p. 302. pl. 19. f. 9.
Buccinum Rumphii, Gmelin.
Buccinum tessellatum, Gmelin.
Buccinum maculosum, Gmelin.
Cassidea fasciata, Bruguière.
Cassis fasciata, Lamarck.
Hab. Australia.

There are three peculiarities of character in this species which distinguish it in an eminent degree from any other. The first consists of a necklace-like row of small spinous nodules just within the base of the spire; the second feature of interest is the dorsal bands of articulated semilunar spots, which are presented in all stages of growth; and the third is that of a row of spinous nodules upon the flattened surface of the outer lip. In form the C. spinosa has some general resemblance with the C. flammea, but it is a shell of much lighter growth and has no indication of any tubercles.

Species 10. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS TESTICULUS. Cass. testá suboblongo-ovatá, crassá, ponderósá, Cypraeiformi, spirá brevissimá, apice acutá; anfractibus evaricosis, longitudinaliter tenuiè et creber-rimè plicato-liratis, supernè rotundatis, basin versus sulcatis; columellá callosá, undique plicato-rugatá, labro crassè reflexo, intus dentato, aperturá elongatá, angustá; livido-violascente, purpureo-fusco longitudinaliter undatá et maculatá, liris dorsalibus albidis, columellá labroque rufescentibus, posteriore ponè nigro-maculato.

THE PURSE HELMET. Shell somewhat oblong-ovate, thick, ponderous, Cowry-shaped, spire very short, sharp at the apex; whorls destitute of varices, longitudinally finely and very closely plicately ridged, rounded at the upper part, grooved towards the base; columella callous, plicately wrinkled throughout, lip thickly reflected, toothed within, aperture elongated and narrow; livid violet, longitudinally waved and spotted with purple brown, dorsal ridges whitish, columella and lip reddish, the latter spotted behind with black.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 32.
Buccinum testicularis, Linnaeus.
Cassidea testicularis, Bruguière.
Hab. West Indies.

Variety β. (Fig. 10, a.)

Testa subpyriformis, supernè crassissima, turgida, plicato-tuberculata.

Shell somewhat pear-shaped, very thick, swollen, and plicately tubercled round the upper part.
Cassis plicata, Martini.
Buccinum plicatum, Dillwyn,
Cassidea crumena, Bruguière.
Cassis crumena, Lamarck.
Hab. West Indies.

M. Kiener has very truly indicated these to be varieties of the same species, the latter being of a very thick swollen callous growth, plicately tubercled round the upper part, but agreeing in the minutest detail with the former. Both are from the same locality.