CASSIS.

PLATE VI.

Species 13. (Fig. a, Mus. Saul; Fig. b and c, Mus. Cuming.)
CASSIS TENUIS. Cass. testá ovato-oblongá, cylindraceá, Cypraeiformi, tenuiculá, spirá brevissimá, anfractibus lèvibus, transversim regulariter sulcatis, sulcis binis, interstitiis longitudinaliter obtusè liratis, tuberculorum seriebus quatuor armatis; columellá vix concavá, supernè et infernè rugatá, labro externo peculiariter reflexo, fortiter dentato-lirato, liris binis; aperturá elongatá, extremitibus ambabus canaliculatis; purpureo-fuscá, livido-cæruleo nebulatá, sulcis lirisque dorsibus cæruleo-albidis, columellá purpureo-nigrá, rugis albis, labro columellari basin versus rufo vivide tinctá, area pone labrum externum purpureo-nigro conspicuè maculatá.

THE THIN CASSIS. Shell ovately-oblong, cylindrical, Cowry-shaped, rather thin, spire very short, whorls smooth, transversely regularly grooved, grooves two and two, interstices longitudinally obtusely ridged, armed with four rows of tubercles; columella slightly concave, wrinkled above and below, outer lip peculiarly reflected, strongly dentately ridged, ridges in pairs, aperture elongated, both extremities channelled; purple-brown, clouded with livid blue, dorsal grooves and ridges white, columella stained towards the base with bright red, area behind the outer lip conspicuously blotched with purple-black.

GRAY, Wood Index Test. Supp. pl. 4. f. 4.
Cassis Massenæ, Kiener.
Hab. Gallapagos Islands (in sandy mud at the depth of six fathoms); Cuming.

M. Deshayes in his notice of this species likens it to the C. testicularis; the accompanying figure of a mature specimen shows, however, that it is much more nearly allied to the C. rufa. In its most advanced stage of growth the shell is comparatively thin, the lip being curled back without any great deposit of enamel; the general form is more cylindrically oblong than that of C. rufa, and the aperture is wider. The colour and marking are extremely pretty.

The C. tenuis, of which a very small but accurate figure was published by Mr. Wood in his supplement to the 'Index Testaceologicus,' has been very generally mistaken by English collectors for Lamarck's C. pennata, which is merely the young of C. rufa.

Species 14. (Mus. Saul.)

CASSIS COARCTATA. Cass. testá cylindraceo-ovatá, crassiusculá, spirá brevi, anfractibus evaricosis, transversim tenuissimè striatis, costis nodulosis cingulatis, quarum quatuor cæteris majoribus; columellá breviplicatá et obliquè subtiliter rugatá, labro intus dentato-lirato, supernè coarctato, non reflexo, aperturá elongatá, angustá; cinereo-albidá, purpureo-fusco tinctá, nodulis nonnullis albicantibus, columellá labroque rufescentibus.

THE CONTRACTED HELMET. Shell cylindrically ovate, rather thick, spire short, whorls destitute of varices, transversely very finely striated, encircled by nodulous ribs, four of which are larger than the rest; columella shortly plicated, and obliquely finely wrinkled, lip dentately ridged within, contracted at the upper part, not reflected, aperture elongated and narrow; ash-white, stained with purple-brown, some of the nodules whitish, lip and columella reddish.

GRAY, Wood Index Test. Supp. pl. 4. f. 5.
Cypræacassis coarctata, Stutchbury.
Hab. Gallapagos Islands, Pacific Ocean (in crevices of rocks); Cuming.

The contraction of the outer lip, which is always constant, is a singular feature in this species. For the magnificent specimen here represented, which is of unusually large size, I am indebted to the choice collection of Miss Saul.