CASSIS.

PLATE VIII.

Species 18. (Mus. Hamilton.)

CASSIS ABBREVIATA. Cass. testá subgloboso-ovatá, crassá, spirá breviusculá, acuminatá, apice subpapillari; anfractibus, ultimo interdum univaricoso, subrotundis, striis longitudinalibus elevatis, sulcis striisve incisis transversis decussatis, liris apicem versus conspicuè granosis; columellá fortiter granosá, labro valdè incrassato, prope basin leviter effuso, intus dentato-lirato; eburneá, maculis parvis aurantio-fuscis quadratis vel inaequalibus distantibus plus minus obscurè pictá, interdum immaculatá, labri margine retrorso fusco radiato

THE ABBREVIATED HELMET. Shell somewhat globosely ovate, thick, spire rather short, acuminated, apex rather papillary; whorls, the last being sometimes one-varicose, somewhat rounded, decussated with longitudinal raised striae and transverse engraved striae or grooves, ridges conspicuously granose towards the apex; columella strongly granose, lip excessively thickened, slightly effused towards the base, dentately ridged within; ivory white, more or less obscurely painted with small orange-brown spots which are square or unequal and distant, sometimes unspotted, reflected edge of the lip rayed with brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 30.
Eadem. Cassis lactea, Kiener.
Hab. Acapulco.

When Lamarck introduced this species, it escaped his notice, as subsequently that of his commentators, that he had already referred to a characteristic figure of it in Martini (Conch. Cab. vol. ii. pl. 34. f. 351, 2) among the synonymy of his C. granulosa (C. inflata). It presents itself under so many different aspects, that it is somewhat difficult to recognise the species in all its varieties without a comparison of numerous specimens. M. Kiener's C. lactea is undoubtedly a variety of it, and the same may be said, with less certainty in the absence of figures, of the C. centiquadrata and doliata described in 1811 by Valenciennes in the Zoology of the Voyage of Humboldt and Bonpland.

Species 19. (Mus. Metcalfe.)

CASSIS PAUCIRUGIS. Cass. testá ovatá, spirá subacuminatá, apice acutá; anfractibus evaricosis, laevibus, nitidis, longitudinaliter irregulariter tenuissimè inciso-striatis, apicem versus decussatis, supernè angulato-declivibus, ad angulum obsoletè nodosis; columellá vix plicatá, labro intus dentato-lirato; eburneá, politá, maculis quadratis fulvescentibus distantibus exilissimè tinctá, maculis saturatoribus pone labrum; aperturae fauce fulvescente-croceá.

THE FEW-WRINKLED HELMET. Shell ovate, spire somewhat acuminated, sharp at the apex; whorls destitute of varices, smooth, shining, longitudinally irregularly very finely marked with engraved striae, decussated towards the apex, angularly slanting round the upper part, obsoletely nodose at the angle; columella scarcely plicated, lip dentately ridged within; ivory white, polished, very faintly stained with distant square fulvous spots, which are darker behind the lip; interior of the aperture fulvous saffron colour.

MENKE, Moll. Nov. Hollandiæ, p. 23. no. 107.
Hab. West coast of New Holland; Menke.

The Cassis paucirugis was described about five years ago by Dr. Menke of Pyrmont, Germany, in his Synopsis of Shells from New Holland, and kindly made known to me by the transmission of his original specimen. From its very discoloured and bleached appearance the species was regarded with some doubt, but a comparison of further specimens from the collections of Mr. Cuming, Mr. Metcalfe, and Mr. Hanley enables me to add satisfactorily to the characters already adduced by Dr. Menke. In the specimen here represented there is a perceptible indication of square fulvous spots beneath its ivory enamelled surface, the columellar lip remaining of as clear a porcelain white as that of the Ovulum ovum, and the interior is distinguished by a warm, fulvous saffron hue.

The C. paucirugis has not hitherto been illustrated, and is but little known. It is impossible to identify a species with any degree of certainty without the aid of a figure, and this, like many more whose existence has only been recorded by the simple technicalities of a diagnose, has been waiting in obscurity to be published under a more intelligible aspect.

Species 20. (Mus. Brit.)

CASSIS RUFA. Cass. testá ovatá, Cypræaformi, crassissimá, ponderosá, spirá brevissimá, anfractibus evari-