authority of M. Kiener, however, who has the same access to the types of the Lamarckian species as we have to those of Linnaeus, the European representative of the genus is the T. cornea, Lamarck. M. Deshayes' T. unguilina (Anim. sans vert. vol. ix. p. 260) must therefore be cancelled.

Species 2. (Mus. Cuming.)

Turritella duplicata. Turr. testá obeso-turbinatá, crassá, ponderosá, anfractibus ad sedecim, primis per-paucis multi-carinatis, cariná unicá, deinde duabus multo eminentioribus, carinis parvis eito evanidis, majoribus gradatim minus elatis, aperturá valdè sinuatá; fulvescente-lacteá, anfractuum parte supremá satu-ratiore.

The duplicate Turritella. Shell stoutly turbinated, thick, ponderous, whorls about sixteen in number, the first few many-keeled, one keel and afterwards two to three very conspicuously elevated, small keels quickly disappearing, larger keels gradually less raised, aperture considerably sinuated; fulvous cream-colour, uppermost part of the whorls of rather darker colour.

Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. ix. p. 251.
Turbo duplicatus, Linnaeus.
Eadem var. Turbo acutangulus, Linnaeus.
An eadem var.? Turbo replicatus, Linnaeus.
Hab. Eastern Seas.

The Turbo acutangulus of Linnaeus is truly a variety of his Turbo duplicatus, as may be seen on reference to the original specimen in the Linnaean collection; but not so the species to which M. Deshayes has assigned that title, figured by M. Kiener at Pl. 2. Fig. 26, and in the accompanying plate at Fig. 4.

The first few whorls of Turritella duplicata are encircled by numerous keels, one of which is particularly sharp and prominent. The smaller keels quickly disappear, and a second of equal prominence with the principal keel makes its appearance in most specimens at about the tenth whorl. Linnaeus's Turbo acutangulus is a specimen in which the second prominent keel is not developed. The first sharp-angled keel is equally prominent in all varieties of the species during the first eight or ten whorls.

Species 3. (Mus. Cuming.)

Turritella terebra. Turr. testá lanceolato-turritá, acutissimè attenuatá, anfractibus ad quinque et viginti, medio tumidiusculis, spiraliter acutè sex-carinatis, suturis laevibus, excavatis; castaneo-brunnea aut fulvescente.

The augur Turritella. Shell lanceolately turreted, very sharply attenuated, whorls about twenty-five in number, rather swollen in the middle, spirally sharply six-keeled, sutures smooth, excavated; chestnut-brown or fulvous.

Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. ix. p. 253.
Turbo terebra, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. (not of Fauna Suecica.)
Turritella Archimedis, Dillwyn, Mawe.
Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

The magnificent specimen here represented, is very similar to that selected by Martyn for the frontispiece of his 'Universal Conchologist.' Struck by the perfect symmetry of its convolutions, he distinguished it by the title of 'Αφροδίτη, significant of its graceful form and marine origin, and truly the geometrical proportions of this species are the perfection of beauty. The specimen figured was dredged by Mr. Cuming in fine sand at low water at the Island of Negros, one of the Philippines. The T. terebra of the 'Fauna Suecica' and of British authors (T. Linnei and unguilinus, Deshayes, T. communis, Philippi) is the T. cornea of Lamarck.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

Turritella attenuata. Turr. testá acutissimè attenuatá, anfractibus ad viginti, spiraliter striatis, posterioribus medio acutè et tenuè unicarinatis stris evanidis, suturis subexcavatis; fuscescente-albá, lividá, anfractuum parte superiori saturatiore, aperturá sinuatá.

The attenuated Turritella. Shell very sharply attenuated, whorls about twenty in number, spirally striated, latter whorls sharply and finely one-keeled in the middle, striae disappearing, sutures rather excavated; light fulvous white, livid, upper part of the whorls darker, aperture sinuated.

Turritella acutangula, Deshayes, Anim. sans vert. vol. ix. p. 259 (not Turbo acutangulus, Linn.).
Hab. ——?

The "cariná majore acutá" by which Linnaeus characterizes his Turbo acutangulus, constitutes a very prominent feature in that and the T. duplicatus, and proves them, beyond doubt, to be one and the same species. In the species under consideration there is no indication of this character, the whorls being merely encircled from the apex with ten elevated striae or fine ridges which become more numerous, fainter, and almost obsolete. The species is further distinguished by its more attenuated growth, and a central fine keel or cord which is not developed until after the tenth or twelfth whorl, and the keel-like striae become obsolete.