TURRITELLA.—PLATE V.

presso-excavatis, deinde bicostatis, costis prominentibus, tumidis, planiusculis, distantibus, interstitio excavato, suturis subprofunde excavatis; fulvo-albida, rufo-fusco profuse flammata et variegata, area inter costas parum picta, basi et aperturae fauce purpureo-roseis.

THE TWO-GIRDLED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, whorls eighteen in number, finely striated, depressly excavated round the upper part, then two-ribbed, ribs prominent, swollen, rather flattened, distant, with the interstice excavated, sutures rather deeply excavated; fulvous white, profusely flamed and variegated with red-brown, area between the ribs but little painted, base and interior of the aperture purple-rose.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. ix. p. 256.
Turritella biangulata, De Blainville.
Hab. Porto Praya, Cape de Verd Islands.

This fine species from the Cape de Verd Islands is distinguished by a pair of conspicuous swollen keels and a bold profuse style of painting; the base and aperture are of a peculiar purplish-hue.

At Pl. VII. Sp. 33, is another species very similar to this, collected by Capt. Sir E. Belcher during the Voyage of the Sulphur.

Species 21. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA TORULOSA. Turr. testa acuminato-turritá, crassiusculá, anfractibus quindecim, rotundatis, striatis, primis bicostatis, ceteris gradatim quadricostatis, costis obsoletè granatis, duabus inferioribus fortioribus; fulvescente-albá, rufo-fusco punctatá et eximiè flammulatá.

THE CORDED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, rather thick, whorls fifteen in number, rounded, striated, first whorls two ribbed, the rest gradually four-ribbed, ribs obsoletely grained, the two lower ribs always the stronger; light fulvous white, dotted and delicately flamed with red-brown.

KlENER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 18. pl. 6. f. 3.
Hab. ——?

The whorls are more than usually rounded in this species, and they are corded with four rather prominent ribs, the upper two of which are not developed until the shell has advanced to its ninth or tenth convolution. The painting has a peculiarly dotted character.