TURRITELLA.

PLATE V.

Species 16. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA BREVIALIS.

For description of this Lamarckian species see Genus Mesalia, Gray, immediately following the present.

For Sp. 16, see Pl. X.

Species 17. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA TRISULCATA. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, anfractibus ad octodecim, transversim conspicuè tricostatis, costis distantibus, sulcis intermediis excavatis; albida, apicem versus violascente, flammulis perpaucis irregularibus aurantio-fuscis obliquè pictá.

THE THREE-GROOVED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, whorls about eighteen in number, transversely conspicuously three-ribbed, ribs distant, intermediate grooves hollowed; whitish, tinged with violet towards the apex, obliquely painted with a very few irregular orange-brown flames.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. ix. p. 256.
Hab. Red Sea; Kiener.

The only species which is prominently three-ribbed. The painting is well characterized by Lamarck in the words, "ses flammules sont éparses."

Species 18. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA ANNULATA. Turr. testá lanceolato-turritá, anfractibus viginti, spiraliter striatis, supernè declivi-bus, deinde concavis et bicarinatis, carinis aperturam versus distantioribus, evanescentioribus, et interdum duplicatis; fulvo-spadiceá, longitudinaliter obscurè albinebulatá.

THE RINGED TURRITELLA. Shell lanceolately turreted, whorls twenty in number, spirally striated, slanting round the upper part, then concave and two-keeled, keels becoming gradually more distant, towards the aperture, fainter, and sometimes duplicate; fulvous-bay, longitudinally obscurely clouded with white.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 20. pl. 13. f. 1.
Hab. Mouth of the Gambia, West Africa.

In the first ten whorls of this species, according to the specimen before me, the whorls are prominently developed and contiguous; after this period of its growth they become gradually fainter and more distant, separating at length into two faint ridges.

Species 19. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA VARIEGATA. Turr. testá pyramidali-turritá, anfractibus quindecim ad sedecim, perpaucis primis supernè declivibus, infernè excavatis, cæteris plano-concavis, supra suturas tumidiusculis, striis confertis lirisque quatuor vel quinque subtilibus, distantibus, interdum obsoletè granulosis, cingulatis; albida vel purpurascente-spadiceá, rufo-fusco punctatá et longitudinaliter variegatá, liris interdum fusco alboque articulatis, aperture fave purpurascente.

THE VARIEGATED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally turreted, whorls fifteen to sixteen in number, the first few slanting round the upper part, excavated beneath, the rest flatly concave, rather swollen above the sutures, encircled with four or five distant sometimes obsoletely granulated ridges; whitish or purple-tinged fawn, dotted and longitudinally variegated with red-brown, ridges sometimes articulated with brown and white, interior of the aperture purplish.

Turbo variegatus, Linn. Syst. Nat. (12th.edit.) p. 1240.
Turritella imbricata, Lamarck.

Var. elongata. Turbo imbricatus, Linnaeus.
Hab. Island of Margarita, West Indies; Dr. Hornbeck.

The original type of the Turbo variegatus in the Linnaean collection is a shell of immature growth, but extremely well characterized and highly coloured. The shell which served for Linnaeus's Turbo imbricatus is, on the contrary, in the worst possible condition, perfectly bleached, and only retaining a sufficient amount of sculpture to identify it with the elongated variety represented by Kiener at Pl. IX. fig. 2 a. A comparison of these shells with specimens in Mr. Cuming's collection and in the British Museum (for one of which illustrative of the elongated variety, see Pl. IX. fig. 19 b) has enabled me to determine their affinity with satisfaction; and the name variegatus should be used in preference to that adopted by Lamarck, from the fact of its being a more appropriate one, and that which was assigned by Linnaeus to the species in its normal form and condition.

Species 20. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA BICINGULATA. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, anfractibus octodecim, subtiliter striatis, supernè de-