TURRITELLA.

PLATE VII.

Species 29. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA COCHLEA. Turr. testá subulato-turritá, crassiusculá, anfractibus quindecim, spiraliter striatis, supernè depresso-excavatis, medio bicarinatis, carinis angustis, elevatis, acutis, distantibus, interstitio excavato, aperturá parvá; albidá.

THE SCREW TURRITELLA. Shell subulately turreted, rather thick, whorls fifteen in number, spirally striated, depressly excavated round the upper part, two-keeled in the middle, keels narrow, elevated, sharp, distant, with the interstices between them excavated, aperture small; white.

Hab. —— ?

The form of this species is remarkably characterized by its very prominent bicarinate structure, resembling the thread of a large flattened press-screw. The specimen here represented from Mr. Cuming's collection is the only one I have seen; and he possesses no information as to its locality. It exhibits no indication of colour.

Species 30. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA RADULA. Turr. testá lanceolato-acuminatá, gracili, anfractibus ad duobus et viginti, supra infràque biliratis, medio concavis, liris, nisi infimá, granoso-crenatis, anfractu ultimo lamellis septiformibus interdum imbricato, granulis subobsoletis; violascente-albidá, rufo-fuscescente flammatá et variegatá.

THE GRATER TURRITELLA. Shell lanceolately acuminated, slender, whorls about two and twenty in number, double-ridged above and below, concave in the middle, ridges, excepting the lowest, granosely crenated, last whorl sometimes imbricated with septiform lamellae, granules rather obsolete; violet-white, flamed and variegated with reddish-brown.

KIEFER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 13. pl. 2. f. 1.
Hab. Isle of Muerte, Bay of Guayaquil (found at the depth of eleven fathoms in sandy mud); Cuming.

The form of the whorls of this elongated lanceolate species is very similar to that of T. exoleta; the middle is however less concave and the upper and lower ribs are represented each by two smaller ridges which are granosely crenulated.

Species 31. (Mus. Metcalfe.)

TURRITELLA HASTULA. Turr. testá acutè lanceolatá, gracili, anfractibus duobus vel tribus et viginti, convexiusculis, concentricè plicato-corrugatis, ulterioribus planatis, basi tumidiusculis, rugis evanidis, anfractibus omnibus spiraliter inciso-striatis, liris intermediis obsoletè granulatis; cinereo-albicante, purpureo-brunneo arcuatim strigatá et variegatá.

THE LITTLE LANCE TURRITELLA. Shell sharply lanceolate, slender, whorls two or three and twenty in number, rather convex, concentrically plicately wrinkled, the latter flattened, rather swollen at the base, the wrinkles faded away, all the whorls spirally impressly striated, the intermediate ridges being obsoletely granulated; ash-white, arcuately streaked and variegated with purple-brown.

Hab. —— ?

A very slender sharply lanceolate shell, fully distinguished by the peculiarities of sculpture above described from any other species of this monograph.

Species 32. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA FERRUGINEA. Turr. testá subelongato-turritá, ad basin angulatá et subcarinatá, anfractibus sedecim, convexis, spiraliter subtiliter liratis, primis bicarinatis, carinis gradatim evanidis, lirarum interstitiis striis minutis longitudinalibus sub lente creberrimè decussatis; albidá, basin versus ferrugineo-castaneo tinctá.

THE RUSTY TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat elongately turreted, angulated and slightly keeled at the base, whorls sixteen in number, convex, spirally finely ridged, the first whorls two-keeled, keels gradually fading, interstices between the ridges very closely decussated beneath the lens with minute longitudinal striae; whitish, stained towards the base with rusty chestnut.

Hab. —— ?

The whorls of this species have a peculiar angular carinate structure at the base, in the place of the suture.

Species 33. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA MACULATA. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, basi concavá et nitidè striatá, anfractibus octodecim spira-