ONISCIA.

PLATE I.

Genus ONISCIA, Sowerby.

Testa oblongo-ovata, basi emarginata, sub-recurva, spirá brevi, nunc acuminatá, nunc depressá, aperturá elongatá, angustá, usque ad spiram extensá, labro columellari latissimè dilatato-reflexo et granulato, labro externo denticulato, incrassato, plerumque medio subcoarctato.
Shell oblong-ovate, emarginated and a little recurved at the base, spire sometimes acuminated, sometimes depressed, aperture elongated, narrow, extending as far as the spire, columellar lip very broadly dilately reflected and granulated, outer lip denticulated, thickened, generally slightly contracted in the middle.

The genus Oniscia founded by Mr. Sowerby in his 'Genera of Shells' on the Linnaean Strombus oniscus (Cassidaria oniscus, Lamarck) has been universally adopted, as representing a very characteristic and well-defined assemblage of characters. They were first remarked on the appearance of the well-known Oniscia cancellata of the China Seas, and their importance has been fully confirmed by the discovery of several interesting new species.

The Onisciae are closely related to the Cassidariae, but are uniformly of smaller size, of more solid growth, with more elaborate sculpture, and remarkably distinguished by a wide-spread dilation of the columellar. The outer lip is also peculiar in being denticulated within.

Of the localities known of the Onisciae three are from the Western, two from the Eastern world.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

ONISCIA ONISCUS. Onisc. testá oblongo-ovatá, crassá, apice nunc obtusá, nunc mucronatá, costis tribus vel quatuor tuberculatis cinctá, tuberculis interdum bipartitis, labro incrassato, tumido, liris interruptis irregularibus intus denticulato; albídá, maculis perpaucis punctisque numerosis cæruleo-nigris aut fuscis aspersá, labris interdum albis, interdum eximiè rosaceis.

The wood-louse Oniscia. Shell oblong-ovate, thick, sometimes obtuse, sometimes pointed at the apex, encircled with three or four tuberculated ribs, tubercles sometimes divided into two, lip thickened, swollen, denticulated within with irregular interrupted ridges; whitish, sprinkled with a few spots and numerous dots of brown or blue-black, lips sometimes white, sometimes delicate pink.

SOWERBY, Genera of Shells, Oniscia, f. 4.
Strombus oniscus, Linnaeus.
Eadem var. Strombus Lamarckii, Deshayes.
Hab. Jamaica; Gosse.

The shell selected for illustration is the pink-lip variety to which M. Deshayes has given the name O. Lamarckii. The white varieties are usually of smaller dimensions, but the characters are in all respects the same.

Species 2. (Mus. Cuming.)

ONISCIA STROMBIFORMIS. Onisc. testá subtrigono-pyri-formi, spirá elevatá, apice mucronatá, anfractibus supernè angulatis, costis numerosis angustis nodosis cinctis, labro columellari minutè granulato, labro externo lirato-denticulato, lirá brevi interruptá interveniente; albá, rufo-fusco maculatá et punctatá, labris albis.

The strombus-shaped Oniscia. Shell somewhat triangularly pear-shaped, spire elevated, pointed at the apex, whorls angulated round the upper part, encircled with many narrow nodulous ridges, columellar lip minutely granulated, outer lip denticulated with ridges, with a short interrupted ridge in the interstices; white, spotted and dotted with red brown, lips white.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842. p. 91. Conch. Syst. vol. ii. p. 210. pl. 253. f. 1.
Hab. Honduras; Dyson.

Distinguished from the preceeding species by its slighter growth, more elevated spire, and finely noduled narrow ribs.

Species 3. (Mus. Dennison.)

ONISCIA EXQUISITA. Onisc. testá subtrigono-ovatá, spirá brevi, acutá, anfractibus supernè concavo-depressis, tuberculis papillaribus undique cingulatis, lirá obscurá interveniente, labro columellari latè expanso, granulis valdè irregularibus, labro externo incrassatim reflexo, liris brevibus dentiformibus irregulariter munito; albídá, aurantio-fusco hic illic sparsim punctatá et pone labrum trimaculatá, labris pallidè purpureo-rosaceis, apice rufo.

The exquisite Oniscia. Shell somewhat triangularly ovate, spire short, sharp, whorls concavely depressed,