BULIMUS.—PLATE I.

This is the largest of the Philippine species, and that
of the most ventricose proportions. The columella is of
a livid blueish purple, and the epidermal pattern consists
of a number of circular bands or lines, frequently ex‐
tending around the last and penultimate whorls; the
specimen ﬁgured, in which the bands are conﬁned to the
last whorl, is rather an exceptional variety.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS RUFOGASTER. Bul. testâ ovato-conoideâ, sub‐
ventricosâ, anfractibus senis, convexis, columellâ sub‐
intortâ; nigricante-purpureâ, interdum rufescente,
epidermide basin versus unifasciatâ, strigis longitudi‐
nalibus nigricantibus, prope ad suturas latioribus, no-
tatâ, aperturâ columellâque cœrulescente-albidis.

THE RED BULIMUS. Shell ovately conoid, somewhat
ventricose, whorls six in number, convex, columella
somewhat twisted; blackish purple, sometimes reddish,
epidermis marked towards the base with a single
band, and with dark longitudinal streaks, which are
broader near the sutures, aperture and columella
blueish white.

Hab. Province of Baie, Island of Luzon (in dark and
lofty forests); Cuming.

In this species the columella is slightly twisted, and of
the same blueish white hue as the interior of the shell.
The pattern of the epidermis exhibits a single band round
the lower part of the last whorl, and a row of broad,
short, interrupted streaks around the sutures. This last
mentioned design I have not observed in any other species.

Species 5. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PHILIPPINENSIS. Bul. testâ ovato-conoideâ,
basi subplanulatâ, anfractibus senis, convexis, ultimo
basin versus subobscurè angulato; columellâ leviter
intortâ; nigricante-fuscâ, epidermide in strigis obliquè
concentricis, aperturâ cœrulescente-albâ, columellâ pal‐
lidè rosaceo-purpurascente.

THE PHILIPPINE BULIMUS. Shell ovately conoid, some‐
what ﬂattened at the base, whorls six in number,

convex, last whorl somewhat obscurely angled towards
the base; columella slightly twisted; blackish-brown,
epidermis disposed in obliquely concentric streaks,
aperture blueish white, columella pale pinkish purple.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846.

Hab. Islands of Luzon and Marinduque, Philippines (on
the leaves of trees); Cuming.

There is little to distinguish this species from the
B. pythogaster; it has a somewhat angular inclination of
growth around the lower part, but this is not a character
to which much importance can be attached, seeing that
the typical varieties above ﬁgured of that species present
almost as great a diﬀerence of form.

Species 6. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS REEVII. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, anfractibus
senis, tumidiusculis, ultimo ventricoso, eﬀuso; intensè
ustulato-fuscâ,epidermide in fasciis insignibus latiusculis
remotis lineisque subtilibus, aperturâ cœrulescente-albâ,
columellâ vix intortâ, peritremate livido-purpuras-
centibus.

REEVE′S BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls six in
number, rather swollen, last whorl ventricose and
eﬀused; rich burnt-brown, with the epidermis in
remarkable rather broad bands and ﬁne lines, aper‐
ture blueish white, columella scarcely twisted, and,
together with the peritreme, of a livid purple hue.

CUMING, MSS., Mus. Cuming.

Helix Reevii, Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841.

Hab. Luhban, Province of Tayabas, Island of Luzon,
Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

This is the ﬁrst species of Bulimus, and I believe the
ﬁrst shell, which Mr. Cuming unpacked from his vast
collection on his return from the Philippines, and, being
present at this exciting moment, I shall not easily forget
the impression caused by the sight of so superb an example
of an arboreal Snail. The remarkable disposition of the
epidermis was quite a matter of astonishment, nothing of
the kind had been observed before, nor had any specimen
of the B.phthogaster been collected in a state of preser‐
vation by which this phenomenon could be understood.