BULIMUS.

PLATE IV.

Species 15. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MINDOROENSIS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ,
anfractibus senis, convexis, columellâ subarcuatâ; fusco-
nigricante aut rufescente, epidermide in strigis conspi-
cuis subdistantibus, aperturâ cœrulescente-albâ, peritre-
mate eﬀusâ, intensè fusco-nigricante.

THE MINDORO BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong,
whorls six in number, convex, columella slightly
arched; brownish black or reddish, with the epi‐
dermis in conspicuous, rather distant, longitudinal
streaks, aperture bluish white, peritreme eﬀused,
deeply stained with brown-black.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840. p. 84.

Hab. Puerto Galero, Philippine Islands (on the leaves of
trees); Cuming.

The epidermal pattern of this species is characteristic,
consisting of numerous conspicuously marked longitudinal
streaks, which in parts are somewhat distant from each
other. The aperture in most of the species is comparatively
rather small, and the lip in all is eﬀused rather than re‐
ﬂected back.

I cannot quite agree in the varieties noted by Mr.
Broderip, some of which are too nearly alike to make it
worth while to mark a distinction, whilst there is one
which appears to me of so diﬀerent a character, that it
should be regarded as another species, see Plate V. Sp. 20.

Species 16. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CHRYSALIDIFORMIS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-
oblongâ, medio ventricosiore, anfractibus septenis, sub-
plano-convexis, columellâ subintortâ, aperturâ parvius-
culâ; intensè rufo-castaneâ, epidermide in fasciis la-
tiusculis, longitudinalibus, undatis, vel ﬂavescente,
epidermide sub fasciâ rufo-fuscâ infra suturas eximiè
tessellatâ, peritremate intensè castaneâ.

THE CHRYSALIS-SHAPED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically
oblong, more ventricose in the middle, whorls seven
in number, rather ﬂatly convex, columella slightly
twisted inwards, aperture somewhat, small; deep
reddish chesnut colour, with the epidermis in rather
broad longitudinal waved streaks, or yellowish, with
the epidermis delicately tessellated upon a reddish
brown band beneath the sutures, peritreme deep
chesnut brown.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833. f. 37. Conch. Illus.
Bulimus, f. 28.

Hab. Fig. 16 a, Mansalai, Island of Mindoro. Fig. 16 b,
Puerto Galero, Philippines (in dark forests of thick
foliage, upon and beneath the leaves); Cuming.

The Bulimus chrysalidiformis described by Mr. Sowerby,
prior to Mr. Cuming′s voyage to the Philippine Islands,
from a pale uncoated specimen, is mainly distinguished by
its elongately cylindrical form, the aperture being com‐
paratively rather small, and a little distorted from the
twisting of the columella. The yellow variety represented
at Fig. 16 a, is very remarkable, and appears, at ﬁrst sight,
to diﬀer materially from the type of the species, which
approaches rather to B. Mindoroensis.

Species 17. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NIMBOSUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-oblongâ, spirâ
acuminatâ, anfractibus septenis, convexis, columellâ
arcuatâ; intensè brunneâ, epidermide in ﬂoccis latis
subdistantibus undatis, aperturâ cœrulescente-albâ, pe‐
ritremate brunneâ.

THE RAINY BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, spire
acuminated, whorls seven in number, convex, colu‐
mella arched; deep brown, with the epidermis in
broad, rather distant, wavy ﬂakes, aperture bluish
white, peritreme brown.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 121.

Hab. Island of Negros (on the summits of the mountains);
Cuming.

A ﬁne dark brown species of a pyramidally acuminated
form, with the epidermis disposed in light longitudinally
waved ﬂakes. Mr. Broderip's variety d has always ap‐
peared to me so constantly distinct from this, that I
propose to elevate it to the rank of a species, in compli‐
ment to my friend, Dr. Pfeiﬀer.

Species 18. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PFEIFFERIANUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, sub-
ventricosâ, anfractibus senis, tumidiusculis, columellâ
subarcuatâ; ﬂavo-viridescente, epidermide in strigis
longitudinalibus undatis, columellâ et aperturâ cœru-
lescente-albis, peritremate et parte circa columellam,
nigricante-fuscis.

April, 1848.