BULIMUS.

PLATE III.

Species 11. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS WOODIANUS. Bul. testâ ovato-conoideâ, basi
peculiariter concavâ, anfractibus quinis subrotundis,
suturis impressis, columella vix intortâ; albâ, epider‐
mide luteâ tenuissimâ nitidâ indutâ, anfractu ultimo
ustulato-fusco tincto, conspicuè unifasciato, columellâ
rosaceo-purpurascente, peritremate et circa columellam
intensè nigricante-castaneis.

WOOD'S BULIMUS. Shell ovately conoid, peculiarly con‐
cave at the base, whorls ﬁve in number, somewhat
round, sutures impressed, columella slightly twisted;
white, covered with a very thin yellow shining epi‐
dermis, last whorl stained with burnt brown and
conspicuously single banded, columella pinkish pur‐
ple, peritreme and around the columella deep blackish
chesnut.

LEA, Trans. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philadelphia, 1840, pl. xi. f. 5.

Hab. Island of Romblon, Philippines (on the trees);
Cuming.

This species is of a character singularly distinct from
the rest of its congeners of the Philippine Isles. No
pattern is discernible in the epidermis, which is merely a
thin transparent horny layer, nor is there any colour in
the shell until it approaches maturity. The specimen re‐
presented at Fig. 11. a is entirely colourless; that at 11. b
has a burnt brown hue upon the last whorl, which is
further distinguished by a dark band and intensely dark
chesnut-stained peritreme.

Species 12. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS JUGLANS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, crassiusculâ, anfrac-
tibus quinis, rotundado-tumidis, obliquè striatis, aper-
turâ subcontractâ, columellâ introrsum arcuatâ; in‐
tensè rufo-castaneâ, epidermide tenuiculâ, spiraliter
lineatâ, aperturâ peritremate et columellâ livido-cœru-
lescentibus.

THE WALNUT BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather thick, whorls
ﬁve in number, rotundately tumid, obliquely striated,
aperture slightly contracted, columella curved in‐
wards; deep reddish chesnut, epidermis rather thin,
spirally lineated, aperture peritreme and columella
pale livid blue.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842. p. 89.

Hab. Mountains of Igarrotes, northern extremity of the
Island of Luzon, Philippines (on leaves of trees);
Cuming.

A rather scarce species of solid growth, and of a deep
crimson brown colour. The aperture is somewhat con‐
tracted, and there is a peculiar twist in the columella.
The epidermis is rather slight, disposed in spiral lines.

Species 13. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FAUNUS. Bul testâ subpyramidali-ovatâ, cras-
siusculâ, anfractibus senis, subconvexis, columellâ vix
rectâ; castaneo-fuscâ, epidermide simplici, fumo-fuscâ,
maculis paucis nigricantibus prope suturas exhibentibus,
aperturâ cœrulescente-albâ, columellâ rosaceo-purpu-
rascente, peritremate nigricante.

THE FAWN BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally
ovate, rather thick, whorls six in number, slightly
convex, columella nearly straight; chesnut-brown,
epidermis simple, smoky-brown, exhibiting a few
blackish spots next the sutures, aperture bluish-
white, columella pinkish-purple, peritreme blackish.

Helix (Cochlostyla) Faunus, Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc.,
1840. p. 180.

Hab. San Nicolas, Island of Zebu (on the trees); Cuming.

Of a ﬁrm pyramidal growth, singularly characterized by
a row of irregular small spots around the sutures.

Species 14. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TICAONICUS. Bul. testâ subgloboso-ovatâ, apice
obtusâ, anfractibus quinis, rotundatis, columellâ sub-
arcuatâ; castaneo-rufâ aut ﬂavicante, epidermide in
ﬂoccis strigisve subdistantibus conspicuis, aut simplici
aut spiraliter lineatâ, columellâ rosaceo-purpurascente,
peritremate purpureo-castaneâ, nonnunquam pallidâ.

THE TICAO BULIMUS. Shell somewhat globosely ovate,
obtuse at the apex, whorls ﬁve in number, rounded,
columella slightly arched; chesnut-red or pale yellow,
with the epidermis in conspicuous, rather distinct
ﬂakes or streaks, or simple or spirally lineated, colu‐
mella pinkish-purple, peritreme purple-chesnut, some‐
times pale.

Helix (Cochlostyla) Ticaonica, Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc.
1840.

Hab. Island of Ticao, Philippines (in the woods); Cuming.

This species, like the B. Daphnis of the Island of Zebu,
is an extremely variable one, assuming numerous styles of
pattern and colour, as may be noticed by the contrast af‐
forded in the specimens selected for representation. All
are, however, distinguished by their globose form, and by
the important delicate pink colouring of the columella.

April, 1848.