BULIMUS.—PLATE IV.

PFEIFFER'S BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather ven-
tricose, whorls six in number, somewhat swollen,
columella slightly arched; pale yellowish green, with
the epidermis in longitudinally waved streaks, colu‐
mella and aperture bluish white, peritreme and the
part round the columella blackish brown.

Bulimus nimbosus, var. d, Broderip.

Hab. Tankay, Island of Negros (on the branches); Cuming.

I have Iong regarded this shell in my own mind as a
species distinct from B. nimbosus; it is composed of one
whorl less, is constantly more ventricose, less pyramidally
acuminated, and always distinguished by a pale yellowish-
green cast of colour with a dark chesnut blotch, nearly
black, around the columella, and there is a peculiarity also
in the arrangement of the epidermis.

To Dr. Pfeiﬀer, of Cassel, I dedicate this beautiful
species, trusting he will appreciate my desire to do him
honour for the service he has rendered to conchological
science by his laborious investigation of the great tribe
of Helicidœ of which the present genus forms a part.

Species 19. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PICTOR. Bul. testâ acuminato-oblongâ, anfrac-

tibus senis, convexis, columellâ subrectâ; intensè brun-
neâ, epidermide plus minusve albâ, fasciis angustis
longitudinalibus undatis, interdum interruptis, prœter-
mittente, aperturâ cœrulescente, peritremate nigricante-
castaneo marginatâ.

THE PAINTER BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, whorls
six in number, convex, columella nearly straight;
rich brown, epidermis more or less white, leaving
narrow longitudinally waved dark bands, which are
sometimes interrupted, aperture bluish white, peri-
treme edged with blackish chesnut.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 120.

Hab. Dingle, Province of Ilo Ilo, Island of Penang,
Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

A richly coloured species, with the epidermis so depo‐
sited as to leave a dark, longitudinal, zig-zag stripe
at intervals, which is occasionally broken or otherwise
interrupted, and has a striking appearance from the epi‐
dermis being of a thick, opake-white, satiny hue down
one side. The aperture is of clear milky white, and the
peritreme is peculiar in having the usual dark colouring
matter quite at the edge.