BULIMUS.

PLATE VI.

Species 24. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GUIMARASENSIS. Bul. testâ subacuminato-
oblongâ, anfractibus quinis, convexis; albâ, glabrâ, an-
fractibus fasciâ fuscâ conspicuâ supra infraque cingu-
latis, epidermide tenui nitidâ luteo-olivaceâ indutâ.

THE GUIMARAS BULIMUS. Shell somewhat acuminately
oblong, whorls ﬁve in number, convex; white, smooth,
whorls encircled above and below by a conspicuous
brown band, and covered by a thin shining yellowish
olive epidermis.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 156.

Hab. Island of Guimaras, Philippines (on the trees);
Cuming.

A well-deﬁned though not a particularly striking shell,
partaking of the character of B. ovoideus and citrinus.
Fig. 24 a is the ordinary state of the species; the variety
represented at Fig. 24 b is one of rare occurrence, in
which the bands are unusually broad and dark coloured.

Species 25. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FRATER. Bul. testâ subacuminato-oblongâ, an‐
fractibus quinis, convexis; rosaceo-albidâ, anfractuum
parte inferiori zonulâ angustâ rufescente cingulatâ,
epidermide tenui nitidâ rufescente-luteâ indutâ.

THE BROTHER BULIMUS. Shell somewhat acuminately
oblong, whorls ﬁve in number, convex; pinkish-
white, lower part of the whorls encircled by a narrow
reddish zone, covered by a thin shining reddish-yellow
epidermis.

DE FERUSSAC, Hist. Nat. Moll. terr. et ﬂuv. pl. 112.
f. 3 and 4.

Hab. Island of Leyte, Philippines (on the leaves of trees);
Cuming.

Dr. Pfeiﬀer is of opinion that this shell is the B. frater
of De Férussac, which is highly probable, although his
ﬁgure of that species represents one of larger dimensions
and devoid of the delicate rose colouring.

Species 26. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MACULIFERUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-oblongâ,
plerumque sinistrorsâ, anfractibus senis, convexis, con-
centricè striatic, ultimo longiusculo; ﬂavescente-spa-
diceâ, interdum brunneo maculatâ et nebulatâ, interdum

immaculatâ, lineâ roseâ longitudinali hic illic ornatâ,
suturis albidis, peritremate albâ, apice nitidè opaco-
albo.

THE BLOTCHED BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong,
mostly sinistral, whorls six in number, concentrically
striated, last whorl rather long; yellowish fawn
colour, sometimes blotched and clouded with brown,
sometimes unspotted, ornamented here and there
with a pink longitudinal line, sutures whitish, peri-
treme white, apex shining opake white.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841, p. 14.

Hab. Province of Misamis, Philippines (on the trunks of
trees); Cuming.

Dr. Pfeiﬀer has intimated his opinion that the B. macu-
liferus is a variety of the B. citrinus. I cannot, however,
agree with him in this; the species are very nearly allied
but always distinct. The present is of a more elongated
growth, and in all its varieties is characterized by the
same pale ferruginous fawn colouring. The variety repre‐
sented at Fig. 26 b is prettily distinguished by three or
four narrow longitudinal zones of a delicate rose colour.

Species 27. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SMARAGDINUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, plus
minusve ventricosâ, anfractibus convexis, subtilissimè
obliquè striatis, suturis superﬁcialiter canaliculatis;
albâ, epidermide tenui corneâ nitidâ infra suturas
indutâ; in anfractu ultimo smaragdinâ vel olivaceo-
virescente, purpureo apicem versus evanescente; peri‐
tremate interdum albâ, interdum pallidè, rosaceâ.

THE EMERALD‐GREEN BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate,
more or less ventricose, whorls convex, very ﬁnely
obliquely striated, sutures superﬁcially channelled,
white, covered beneath the sutures with a thin shining
horny epidermis; bright emerald-green or olive-green
on the last whorl, fading into purple towards the apex,
peritreme sometimes white, sometimes light pink.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 49. Conch. Syst. vol. ii.
pl. 173. f. 6.

Hab. Surigao, Island of Mindanao, Philippines (on the
leaves of trees); Cuming.

The accompanying ﬁgures of this bright coloured and
delicate species represent extreme states of it, one being
much more ventricose and of a lighter colour than the

April, 1848.