BULIMUS.

PLATE V.

Species 20. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NOBILIS. Bul. testâ acuminato-oblongâ, anfrac-
tibus quinis senisve, subplano-convexis, suturis impressis,
columellâ rectiusculâ; virescente-ﬂavidâ, epidermide
tenui, zonulas albas sinuatas, longitudinales, nunc dis-
tantes, nunc interruptas, exhibente, anfractu ultimo
fasciâ angustâ nigricante-fuscâ parte inferiore cingu-
lato, circa columellam nigricante, peritremate albâ.

THE NOBLE BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, whorls
ﬁve or six in number, somewhat ﬂatly convex, sutures
impressed, columella rather straight; greenish yellow;
epidermis thin, exhibiting longitudinally sinuated
opake white zones, sometimes interrupted, sometimes
rather distant, last whorl with a narrow dark brown
band round the lower part, blackish around the
columella, peritreme white.

Hab. Mountains of Igbaras, Island of Luzon, Philippines
(on the trees); Cuming.

The markings of this beautiful species are similar to
those of the B. fulgetrum, the epidermis being thin, ex‐
cepting where it is disposed in striking lightning-like
streaks, darting, so to speak, out of the sutures; in form
the shell is constantly distinct, and it is further charac‐
terized by a conspicuous dark band.

Species 21. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ELECTRICUS. Bul. testâ subelongato-ovatâ, me‐
dio ventricosiore, spirâ acuminatâ, anfractibus senis,
subplano-convexis, columellâ leviter intortâ; livido-
rufâ, epidermide tenuiculâ, strigas pallidas obliquè un-
datas, valdè irregulares, exhibente, aperturâ albidâ,
peritremate rufo-fuscâ.

THE ELECTRIC BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately
ovate, more ventricose in the middle, spire acumi‐
nated, whorls six in number, rather ﬂatly convex,
columella slightly twisted; livid red, epidermis rather
thin, exhibiting very irregular obliquely waved pale
streaks, aperture whitish, peritreme reddish brown.

Bulimus Mindoroensis, var. k, Broderip.

Hab. Puerto Galero, Island of Mindoro, Philippines (on
the leaves of trees); Cuming.

If any importance is to be attached to the character and
pattern of the epidermis of these shells, there is certainly
enough to distinguish this from the B. Mindoroensis.

The epidermis is of a soft, very slight texture, of a uniform
reddish brown tint in which light streaks descend here
and there from the sutures in very zigzag course, some‐
what as in B. fulgetrum but fainter; and, besides this,
the shell is of a more acuminated growth, whilst the last
whorl is larger and more eﬀused.

Species 22. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BICOLORATUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali, anfrac‐
tibus septenis, leviter convexis, columellâ subintortâ;
rufo-brunneâ, subtus viridi, epidermide in strigis lati-
usculis longitudinalibus medio peculiariter interrupts,
et infernè bifasciatâ, peritremate columellâque intensè
nigro-fuscis.

THE TWO‐COLOURED BULIMUS. Shell pyramidal, whorls
seven in number, slightly convex, columella slightly
twisted; reddish-brown, green beneath, epidermis
in rather broad longitudinal bands, peculiarly inter‐
rupted in the middle, and two-banded round the
lower part, peritreme and columella deep black-
brown.

LEA, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc., vol. vii. p. 459. pl. 11. f. 8.
Bulimus Alberti, Broderip.

Hab. Mount Isarog, Province of Camarinas; and Calanang,
Province of Baie, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on
the trees); Cuming.

A truly beautiful species, remarkable for its pyramidal
growth, and original display of colouring. None of the
preceding species have any indication of the bright green
which distinguishes the under portion of the body-whorl
in this, and the epidermal pattern is equally peculiar.

The shell described by Mr. Broderip under the name of
B. onyx appears to be only another state of this, inhabiting
the same locality in more lofty situations in the trees.
It should be observed that Mr. Cuming collected but two
specimens, one in bad condition, the other of immature
growth. They are of a singular pupiform shape, but are
so nearly allied to the B. bicoloratus in other respects, that
the species must be received with caution until further
and better means of comparison can be obtained.

The honour intended by the dedication of this ﬁnest of
the Philippine species, to be conferred on H.R.H. Prince
Albert, whose interest in Conchology is handsomely testi‐
ﬁed by his patronage of the present work, was uncon-

April, 1848.