BULIMUS.—PLATE VIII.

THE DIANA BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, whorls
seven in number, convex, columella slightly twisted;
straw-colour, ivory-white towards the apex, epidermis
thin, longitudinally streaked and clouded, peritreme
very white.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 157.

Hab. Tanhay, Island of Negros, Philippines (on the
leaves of bushes); Cuming.

The chief point of diﬀerence between this species and
the B. Calista appears to consist in the shining ivory-white
peritreme and apex, and it is not unlikely, as Mr. Broderip
suggests, that they may merge into one and the same
species.

Species 41. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NYMPHA. Bul. testâ subpyramidali-oblongâ,
anfractibus senis septenisve, convexis, ultimo obscurè
carinato; columellâ vix arcuatâ; rufo-castaneâ, epi-
dermide in strigis longitudinalibus, latis, rectiusculis,
peritremate purpureo-nigricante.

THE NYMPH BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally ob‐
long, whorls six or seven in number, convex, the last
obscurely keeled; columella scarcely curved; reddish
chesnut, epidermis in rather straight broad longitu‐
dinal streaks, peritreme purple-black.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 89.

Hab. Fig. a, Mount Isarog; Fig. b, Catanauan, Island of
Luzon, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

The variety represented at Fig. b is composed of a
whorl less than the other, and is of more ventricose pro‐
portions. From B. Boholensis, to which this species is
perhaps the nearest allied, it diﬀers in being of a more
acuminated form, whilst the pretty zig-zag pattern is
wanting in the epidermis.

Species 42. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SIQUIJORENSIS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenui‐
culâ, anfractibus senis, subventricosis, ultimo obscurè
carinato; columellâ rectiusculâ, aperturâ paululum
eﬀusâ; ﬂavicante, epidermide tenui, pulcherrimè mar‐
moratâ et ﬂammatâ, peritremate purpureo-nigricante,
apice rufescente-castaneo.

THE SIQUIJOR BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather
thin, whorls six in number, rather ventricose, the
last obscurely keeled; columella nearly straight,
aperture a little eﬀused; yellowish, prettily ﬂamed
and marbled, peritreme purple-black, apex reddish
chesnut.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 74.

Hab. Island of Siquijor, Philippines (on the leaves of
trees); Cuming.

A light ventricose shell, in which the epidermis is dis‐
posed in light sharply zig-zag ﬂames, and beneath the
keel, which is obscurely developed on the last whorl,
there is an interrupted band of indistinct arrow-headed
marks.