BULIMUS.

PLATE VIII.

Species 36. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CAMELEOPARDALIS. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ,
spirâ valdè productâ, anfractibus septenis, plano-con-
vexis, ultimo obscurè carinato, columellâ arcuatâ,
aperturâ parviusculâ; castaneo-ﬂavicante, epidermide
virgas longitudinales latiusculas conspicuas, vix un-
datas, prœtermittente; peritremate purpureo-nigricante.

THE CAMELEOPARD BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong,
spire much produced, whorls seven in number, ﬂatly
convex, the last obscurely keeled, columella arched,
aperture rather small; chesnut yellow, epidermis
leaving rather broad conspicuous longitudinal stripes,
scarcely waved, peritreme purple-black.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 157.

Hab. Sibonga, Island of Zebu, Philippines (on the leaves
of bushes); Cuming.

Distinguished by its elongated dactylose form, and by
the bold longitudinally striped pattern of the epidermis.

Species 37. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BOHOLENSIS. Bul. testâ subelongato-oblongâ,
anfractibus senis, leviter convexis, columellâ vix intortâ;
pallidè castaneâ, apicem versus ﬂavicante, epidermide
maculas sparsas strigasque acutè undatas, sœpè angustas,
numerosas, prœtermittente, peritremate purpureo-nigri-
cante.

THE BOHOL BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately ob‐
long, whorls six in number, slightly convex, columella
a little twisted; pale chesnut, yellowish towards the
apex, epidermis leaving sharply zig-zag streaks, some‐
times numerous and narrow, with scattered spots,
peritreme purple-black.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p, 158.

Hab. Island of Bohol, Philippines (on leaves of trees);
Cuming.

In general aspect this species approximates closely to
the preceding; it is, however, less elongated in form, and
the epidermal pattern is of an oblique zig-zag character,
which is sometimes developed with peculiar neatness.

Species 38. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CALISTA. Bul. testâ elongato-ovatâ, anfractibus
septenis, convexis, columellâ subintortâ; stramineâ,

epidermide tenuiculâ, in strigis longitudinalibus undatis,
peritremate purpureo-nigricante, apice rufo-castaneo.

THE CALISTA BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, whorls
seven in number, convex, columella slightly twisted;
straw-colour, epidermis rather thin, in waved longi‐
tudinal streaks, peritreme purple-black, apex reddish
chesnut.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 152.

Hab. Tanhay, Island of Negros, Philippines (on the leaves
of bushes); Cuming.

The B. Calista is of a delicate straw-colour, with a very
light epidermis; in form it approaches the B. Boholensis.
and the colouring of the peritreme and columella is nearly
the same.

Species 39. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DACTYLUS. Bul. testâ, pyramidali-oblongâ, basin
versus peculiariter eﬀusâ; anfractibus septenis, convexis,
ultimo obscurè carinato; columellâ subintortá; castaneo-
fuscescente, epidermide longitudinaliter nebulatim un-
datâ, lineam spiralem infernè prœtermittente, peritremate
castaneo-nigricante.

THE FINGER BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, pecu‐
liarly eﬀused towards the base; whorls seven in
number, convex, the last obscurely keeled; columella
slightly twisted; light chesnut-brown, epidermis
longitudinally nebulously waved, leaving a spiral
linear mark round the lower part, peritreme chesnut-
black.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842.

Hab. Mountains of Tayabas, Island of Luzon, Philippines
(on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

This species, of which Mr. Cuming collected but few
specimens, may be recognised by its acuminated growth
and eﬀused development of the aperture. It appears to
come nearer the B. carinatus of Lea in these respects,
than any that has been attributed to that species.

Species 40. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DIANA. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ, anfractibus
septenis, convexis, columellâ subintortâ; stramineâ,
apicem versus eburneâ, epidermide tenui longitudinaliter
nebulatâ et strigatâ, peritremate eburneâ.

April, 1848.