BULIMUS.—PLATE VII.

Species 34. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ROMBLONENSIS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-ovatâ,
anfractibus senis leviter convexis, striis transversis et
obliquis subtilissimè obscurè decussatis, columellâ in-
tortâ; virescente-albâ, glabrá, nitidâ, anfractibus fasciâ
castaneâ infernè cingulatâ, epidermide tenui viridi-
luteâ, parte circa columellam nigricante-castaneâ, colu‐
mellâ et peritremate albis.

THE ROMBLON BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally ovate, whorls
slightly convex, obscurely decussated with very ﬁne
transverse and oblique striæ, columella twisted;
greenish-white, smooth, shining, whorls encircled
round the lower part with a chesnut band, epidermis
thin, greenish yellow, blackish chesnut around the
columella, columella and peritreme white.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 152.

Hab. Island of Romblon, Philippines (on the trees);
Cuming.

A bright shining species closely resembling a variety of
B. cincinnus, not ﬁgured in the accompanying plate, which
is suﬃciently distinct in form to prevent their being con‐
founded, the one for the other.

Species 35. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SUBCARINATUS. Bul. testâ conico-ovatâ, sub-

pellucidâ, anfractibus senis convexis, striis transversis
et obliquis subtilissimè decussatis, ultimo infernè ob‐
scurè subcarinato, columellâ vix intortá, labro reﬂexo,
subeﬀuso; cœrulescente-albâ, epidermide hydrophanâ
fuscescente ad suturas peculiariter auratâ, sub alterâ
corneâ.

THE SLIGHTLY‐KEELED BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate,
somewhat transparent, whorls six in number, convex,
very ﬁnely decussated with ﬁne transverse and ob‐
lique striæ, last whorl obscurely slightly keeled,
columella but little twisted, lip reﬂected, somewhat
eﬀused; blueish white, epidermis hydrophanous, light
brown, peculiarly golden tinged at the sutures, over
another one of a thin horny substance.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 153.

Hab. Island of Romblon, Philippines (on the leaves of
trees); Cuming.

This delicate semi-transparent species serves to illus‐
trate in an interesting manner the phenomenon, observed
in many Bulimi, of a double epidermis. The shell under
consideration is a clear opal white, it is then covered with
a thin, shining, greenish, horny epidermis, over which is
a soft, tenacious, porous, hydrophanous one, curiously
puckered and tinged with a bronze or golden hue around
the sutures.