BULIMUS.

PLATE IX.

Species 43. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CUYOENSIS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-ovatâ, umbi-
licatâ, anfractibus quinis, subrotundis, ventricosiusculis,
columellâ subarcuatâ; ustulato-fuscâ vel stramineâ,
nigra unifasciatâ, epidermide strigas conspicuas longi-
tudinales, vix undatas, exhibente, peritremate albo.

THE CUYO BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally ovate, umbili-
cated, whorls ﬁve in number, somewhat rounded,
rather ventricose, columella slightly arched; burnt
brown or straw-colour, encircled by a black band,
epidermis exhibiting conspicuous longitudinal slightly
waved streaks, peritreme white.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 252.

Bulimus calobaptus, Jonas.

Hab. Islands of Cuyo and Mindoro, Philippines (on the
trees); Cuming.

This very pretty species was ﬁrst described by Dr.
Pfeiﬀer, from a single indiﬀerent specimen collected by
Mr. Cuming at the Island of Cuyo; others subsequently
arrived from the Island of Mindoro, exceeding the former
so greatly in size and beauty, that their identity was not
recognised.

Species 44. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FICTILIS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ, sub-
umbilicatâ, anfractibus senis, convexis, columellâ labro-
que latè reﬂexis; rufo-castaneâ, epidermide lacteâ
opacâ, strigas paucas longitudinales irregulares præter-
mittente, peritremate albo.

THE EARTHEN BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong,
slightly umbilicated, whorls six in number, convex,
lip and columella widely reﬂected; reddish chesnut,
covered with an opake cream-coloured epidermis,
leaving a few irregular longitudinal streaks, peritreme
white.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840.

Hab. Island of Cuyo, Philippines (on the leaves of trees);
Cuming.

I much doubt if the Bulimus larvatus of Broderip,
(Sowerby, Conch. Illus. f. 117) is distinct from this; it
was described, with some hesitation, from a single speci‐
men in rather indiﬀerent condition, and its speciﬁc value
has not been conﬁrmed by the receipt of any specimens
showing more distinctly the characters which it served to
indicate.

Species 45. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DRYAS. Bul. testâ elongato-ovatâ, crassiusculâ,
subumbilicatâ, anfractibus senis, convexis, aperturâ
subcontractâ, labro crassiusculo, latè reﬂexo; eburneâ,
plerumque castaneo vel fusco-nigricante conspicuè fas-
ciatâ, epidermide vix nullâ.

THE DRYAS BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, rather
thick, slightly umbilicated, whorls six in number,
convex, aperture somewhat contracted, lip rather
thick, broadly reﬂected; ivory-white, mostly conspi‐
cuously banded with chesnut and brownish-black,
with scarcely any epidermis.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840.

Bulimus porraceus, Jay.

Testa juvenis, Bulimus paradoxus, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. Mansalai, Island of Mindoro, Philippines (in the
woods); Cuming.

Of a peculiarly thickened growth compared with other
species, giving a widely reﬂected lip to the aperture, with
an extremely slight epidermis. The rich dark chesnut
bands with which it is mostly encircled are deeply stained
in the shell.

Species 46. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SYLVANUS. Bul. testâ elongato-ovatâ, subpyra-
midali, anfractibus senis, subventricosis, aperturâ sub-
eﬀusâ, labro latè reﬂexo; albidâ, castaneo-fusco ple-
rumque latifasciatâ, epidermide luteâ corneâ, strigas
remotas longitudinales plerumque exhibente, peritremate
albo, sæpe castaneo vel roseo marginato.

THE SYLVANUS BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, some‐
what pyramidal, whorls six in number, rather ven‐
tricose, aperture slightly eﬀused, lip widely reﬂected;
whitish, generally broadly banded with chesnut-brown
and covered with a thin yellow horny epidermis,
frequently exhibiting remote longitudinal streaks,
peritreme white, often edged with rose or chesnut.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840.

Hab. Puerto Portrero, Island of Mindoro (in the woods);
Cuming.

This species, it will be observed, is distinguished from
the preceding by its lighter growth, deeper colour, and
more developed epidermis.

April, 1848.