BULIMUS.

PLATE VII.

Species 30. (Fig. a, b, c, and d. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CINCINNUS. Bul. testâ ovato-pyramidali, tenui,
subhyalinâ, anfractibus senis subrotundatis, columellâ
subintortâ, labro simplici, vix reﬂexo; pallidè rosaceâ,
albidâ aut virescente, epidermide fuscâ basin versus
sparsim maculatâ.

THE CURL BULIMUS. Shell ovately pyramidal, thin,
rather transparent, whorls six in number, somewhat
rounded, columella slightly twisted, lip simple,
scarcely reﬂected; pale pink, whitish or greenish,
sparingly bespotted towards the base with dark
brown epidermis.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 98.

Hab. Islands of Temple and Burias, Philippines (on the
leaves of trees); Cuming.

A very delicate and extremely variable species, the
epidermis of which is of so tenacious a character that it is
rare to meet with specimens having any portion adhering.
The colour of some is purple, of others light pink or pale
green, and the shell has not unfrequently a pink columella.

Species 31. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CALYPSO. Bul. testâ subpyramidali-ovatâ, dia-
phanâ, anfractibus senis, convexis; columellâ pecu-
liariter contortâ et truncatâ, labro tenui, vix reﬂexo;
albidâ, fasciis pallidè olivaceo-luteis, prœcipuè in an-
fractu ultimo, cingulatâ; columellâ apice et peritre-
mate roseo-purpureis.

THE CALYPSO BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally
ovate, diaphanous, whorls six in number, convex;
columella peculiarly twisted and truncated, lip thin,
but little reﬂected; whitish, encircled with pale olive
yellow bands, especially round the last whorl, colu‐
mella apex and peritreme rose-purple.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840. p. 182.

Hab. Tanhay, Isle of Negros, Philippines (in the woods);
Cuming.

Only two specimens of this very delicate diaphanous
species were collected; it is encircled by numerous faint
olive-yellow bands, somewhat crowded towards the base,
and the columella, peritreme, and ﬁrst two whorls of the
shell are of a deep rose-purple; there is, moreover, a
dark purplish stripe around the columella.

It is a peculiarity in this species that the banded pattern
does not reside in the epidermis, as in most of its con‐
geners, but in the shell, where it may be observed
winding round the interior.

Species 32. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS VIRENS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-ovatâ, lœviusculâ,
nitidâ, anfractibus septenis, subplano-convexis, ultimo
infernè obscurè angulato; columellâ vix intortâ, labro
subreﬂexo; albâ, epidermide tenui virescente basin versus
indutâ.

THE PALE GREEN BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally ovate,
rather smooth, shining, whorls seven in number,
rather ﬂatly convex, the last obscurely angled round
the lower part; columella slightly twisted, lip but
little reﬂected; white, covered with a thin epidermis
which is of a pale green colour towards the base.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 153.

Hab. Island of Burias, Philippines (on leaves of trees);
Cuming.

I cannot trace the resemblance which Dr. Pfeiﬀer
notices between this shell and B. carinatus, Lea; the
ﬁgure of that species in the Transactions of the Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, represents a shell
belonging rather to that division of the genus which is
characterised by a hydrophanous epidermis.

Species 33. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS HINDSII. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, anfractibus
quinis convexis, columellâ subintortâ, labro reﬂexo;
albâ, anfractibus fasciâ castaneâ supra et, infra cingu-
latis, epidermide tenui luteâ, parte circa columellam
et peritremate purpureo-fuscis

HIND’S BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls convex,
columella slightly twisted, lip reﬂected; white, whorls
encircled above and below with a chesnut band,
epidermis thin, yellow, peritreme and part around
the columella purple-brown.

PFEIFFER, MSS. Mus. Cuming.

Hab. Tayabas, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the leaves
of trees); Cuming.

The general aspect of this shell is very simple, but it is
not a species of common occurrence.

April, 1848.