BULIMUS.—PLATE X.

ﬂamed with white, encircled round the lower part
with a dark line or narrow band, sometimes with a
white band beneath the sutures peculiarly abraded
here and there, columella and interior of the aperture
bluish white, peritreme edged with chesnut-black.

Helix leucophæa, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841. p. 19.

Hab. Dolores, Province of Pampanga, and Mountains of
Igarrotes, Province of Cagayan, Island of Luzon,
Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

There is a singular peculiarity attending this species in
the manner in which the epidermis, especially on the
band which is sometimes seen beneath the sutures, is
abraded, denuding the shell in patches.

Species 51. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LEOPARDUS. Bul. testâ subabbreviato-ovatâ,
ventricosâ, anfractibus quinis, convexis, longitudinaliter
creberrimè costulato-striatis, ultimo spiræ longitudinem
superante, columellâ arcuatâ, aperturâ amplissimâ;
luteo-castaneâ, epidermide albidâ sparsâ, sub alternâ
tenui corneâ, variegatâ, peritremate purpureo-castaneo.

THE LEOPARD BULIMUS. Shell somewhat shortly ovate,
ventricose, whorls ﬁve in number, convex, very
closely sculptured longitudinally with ﬁne rib-like
striæ, last whorl exceeding the length of the spire,
columella arched, aperture very large; yellowish-
chesnut, variegated with a scattered whitish epider-
mis upon a thin horny one, peritreme purple-chesnut.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 67.

Hab. Island of Mindoro, Philippines.

This remarkable species, of which Mr. Cuming has only
the single specimen here represented, is distinguished from
all others by the eﬀused and suddenly enlarged develop-
ment of the last whorl. It is also characterized by a
regular succession of longitudinal rib-like striæ of a more
deﬁned growth than the ordinary lines of structure, which
in a genus so devoid of sculpture is an important feature.

The name is suggested by the scattered interrupted
stripes in which the outer hydrophanous epidermis is de-
posited. The columella, it should be observed, has a
pinky hue, and the impress of the striæ imparts a delicate
satiny irridescence to the interior of the shell.

Species 52. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONCINNUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-oblongâ, an-
fractibus senis plano-convexis, aperturâ contractâ, labro
reﬂexo; castaneo-fuscâ, epidermide concinnè albido-
marmoratâ el ﬂammatâ, columellâ et aperturæ fauce
cærulescente-albis, peritremate nigricante-castaneo.

THE PRETTY BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, whorls
six in number, ﬂatly convex, aperture contracted, lip
reﬂected; chesnut-brown, epidermis prettily ﬂamed
and marbled with white, columella and interior of the
aperture bluish white, peritreme dark chesnut.

Helix concinna, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc, 1841. p. 20.

Hab. St. Juan, Province of Cagayan, Island of Luzon,
Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

I much doubt whether this is anything more than a
variety of the B. leucophæa; it is, however, a well-marked
and extremely pretty one.