BULIMUS.—PLATE XI.

cingulatâ, epidermide tenui, albicante, strigas longitu‐
dinales subindistinctè prætermittente, peritremate rufo-
fusco.

THE CLOTHED BULIMUS. Shell oblong, somewhat Pupa-
shaped, whorls six in number, subrotund, aperture
rather small, lip simple; yellowish white, encircled
with a narrow red-brown zone, epidermis thin, whitish,
leaving somewhat indistinctly longitudinal streaks,
peritreme red-brown.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841, p. 15.

Hab. Island of Camote, Philippines (on the leaves of
trees); Cuming.

Of this species Mr. Cuming only collected three speci‐
mens, and these appear to be of somewhat immature
growth. It is not distinguished by any marked pecu‐
liarity of character.

Fig. 58. (Mus. Cuming.)

This shell was named in Mr. Cuming’s collection B. ne-
bulosus, but as I am doubtful of its being a variety of the
B. calista, it may for the present be referred to that species.
For Sp. 58, see Pl. XIII.

Species 59. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PYRAMIDALIS. Bul. testâ oblongo-pyramidali,
apice obtusâ, anfractibus senis, subrotundis, aperturâ
parviusculâ, labro simplici; fulvâ, basin versus sutu-
risque nigricante-castaneâ, epidermide tenui indutâ,
columellâ albâ, peritremate fusco.

THE PYRAMIDAL BULIMUS. Shell oblong-pyramidal,
obtuse at the apex, whorls six in number, somewhat

round, aperture rather small, lip simple; yellowish,
blackish chesnut towards the base and in the sutures,
covered with a thin epidermis, columella white, peri‐
treme brown.

Helix pyramidalis, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841, p. 39.

Hab. Island of Cuyo, Philippines (upon the leaves of
trees); Cuming.

The colour of this shell is a dark burnt brown, with
traces of a light puckered epidermis beneath the sutures.
It may be readily distinguished by this and its pyramidal
growth.

Species 60. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ACUMINATUS. Bul. testâ subpyramidali-ovatâ,
apice acuminatâ, anfractibus quinis, convexis, ultimo
obscurè subangulato, labro tenui, vix reﬂexo; lutescente-
brunneâ, zonulâ castaneâ cingulatâ, epidermide tenui
indutâ, columellâ albâ, peritremate rufo-fusco.

THE ACUMINATED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyrami‐
dally ovate, spire acuminated, whorls ﬁve in number,
convex, the last obscurely slightly angled, lip thin,
but slightly reﬂected; yellowish-brown, encircled by a
narrow chesnut zone, covered with a thin epidermis,
columella white, peritreme red-brown.

Helix acuminata, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1841, p. 39.

Hab. Island of Cuyo, Philippines (upon the leaves of
trees); Cuming.

Of a peculiar yellowish-brown colour encircled by a
narrow zone of red-brown and stained with very dark
chesnut round the columella. It diﬀers from B. incomptus
only in form, its general aspect and colouring are the
same.