BULIMUS.

PLATE XI.

Species 53. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS INCOMPTUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, obtuso-
pyramidali, anfractibus quinis, rotundatis, columellâ
rectâ, labro vix reﬂexo; lutescente-brunneâ, zonulâ
nigricante-fuscâ cingulatâ, epidermide tenui indutâ.

THE UNADORNED BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate, obtusely
pyramidal, whorls ﬁve in number, rounded, columella
straight, lip but slightly reﬂexed; yellowish brown,
encircled by a narrow blackish brown zone, covered
by a thin epidermis.

Helix incompta, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840.

Hab. Island of Tablas, Philippines.

Only a single specimen of this species was collected,
and it has very much the appearance of being an abortive
growth of one subsequently named by Mr. Sowerby, Helix
acuminata (Sp. 60); they are identical in colour and
pattern, but vary materially in form.

Species 54. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PARTULOIDES. Bul. testâ pyramidali, spirâ
acuminatâ, anfractibus quinis, convexis, aperturâ par-
viusculâ, subquadrato-ovali, labro latissimè reﬂexo; al-
bidâ, zonulâ castaneo-nigricante cingulatâ, epidermide
luteâ indutâ, interdum omnino intensè castaneâ, peritre-
mate albo.

THE PARTULA-LIKE BULIMUS. Shell pyramidal, spire
acuminated, whorls ﬁve in number, convex, aperture
rather small, somewhat square-ovate, lip very broadly
reﬂected; whitish, encircled by a narrow chesnut
black zone, covered by a yellow epidermis, sometimes
dark chesnut throughout, peritreme white.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 181.

Hab. Island of Tablas, Philippines (on the leaves of trees);
Cuming.

This is the nearest approach to Partula of any species
of the genus, the aperture having the same square-like
form and widely reﬂexed lip.

Species 55. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LUZONICUS. Bul. testâ subelongato-ovatâ, apice
obtusâ, anfractibus senis, convexis, columellâ intortâ,
aperturâ subcontractâ, labro reﬂexo; eburneâ, zonulâ
angustâ nigricante conspicuè cingulatâ.

THE LUZON BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately ovate,
obtuse at the apex, whorls six in number, convex,
columella twisted, aperture somewhat contracted, lip
reﬂexed; ivory white, conspicuously encircled by a
narrow black zone.

Hab. Island of Masbate, Philippines (on the trees);
Cuming.

I have always considered this shell to represent a species
distinct from B. ovoideus, and propose to re-establish Mr.
Sowerby’s name, although he himself abandoned it upon
the grounds of its relationship. It is of a more elongately
oblong form, is composed of a whorl more, and the narrow
black zone with which it is encircled never varies. These
characters may be regarded as of triﬂing importance, but
they are constant. In a parcel of upwards of a hundred
of each species which came into my possession some time
since, there was no variation or the least tendency to
merge one into the other. The name is rather an inap-
propriate one, for Mr. Cuming did not collect a single
species at Luzon; there is, however, no reason why it
might not become naturalized in that island.

Species 50. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS OVOIDEUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, subven-
tricosâ, apice obtusâ, anfractibus quinis, convexis, colu-
mellâ vix intortâ, labro reﬂexo; albâ, fasciis duabus
tribusve latiusculis aurantio- vel castaneo-fuscis cingu-
latâ, epidermide tenuissimâ.

THE OVOID BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate, rather ven-
tricose, obtuse at the apex, whorls ﬁve in number,
convex, columella scarcely twisted, lip reﬂected;
white, encircled with two or three rather broad
orange-brown or chesnut bands, epidermis very thin.

BRUGUIERE, Enc. Méth. Dict., No. 64.

Hab. Islands of Ticao and Masbate, Philippines (on the
trees); Cuming.

Distinguished by its oval ventricose growth and broad
spiral bands of colour.

Species 57. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS VELATUS. Bul. testâ oblongâ, sub-Pupœformi,
anfractibus senis, subrotundis, aperturâ parviusculâ,
labro simplici; lutescente-albâ, zonulâ rufo-fuscescente

May, 1848.