BULIMUS.—PLATE XII.

The shell is not in very good condition and only a vestige
of the epidermis remains near the aperture.

Species 66. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LEAI. Bul. testâ ovato-conoideâ, solidiusculâ,
spirâ subobtusâ, aufractibus quinque, rotundatis, colu‐
mellâ sub-planâ, labro reﬂexo; albâ, epidermide tenui
stramineâ indutâ.

LEA'S BULIMUS. Shell ovately conoid, rather solid, spire
somewhat obtuse, whorls ﬁve in number, rounded,
columella rather ﬂattened, lip reﬂected; white,
covered with a thin straw-coloured epidermis.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 29.

Hab. Philippine Islands.

A shell of simple character though not exactly agreeing
with any other species.

Species 67. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS STABILIS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-ovatâ, cras-
siusculâ, basi eﬀusâ, anfractibus sex, plano-convexis,
angustis, aperturâ obliquâ, labro fortiter reﬂexo; albâ,
anfractuum parte inferiori intensè ustulalo-castaneâ,
peritremate albo.

THE FIRM BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically ovate, rather
thick, eﬀused at the base, whorls six in number, ﬂatly
convex, narrow, aperture oblique, lip strongly re‐
ﬂected; white, lower part of the whorls deep burnt
chesnut, peritreme white,

Helix stabilis, Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 104.

Hab. Isle of Temple, Philippines; Cuming.

A solid Pupiform shell, approximating in some degree
to the B. ovoideus but of more solid structure and very
peculiar in its style of colouring.

Species 68. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BULLULA. Bul. testâ ovato-conoideâ, anfracti-
bus quatuor, convexis, aperturâ subeﬀusâ, labro vix re-
ﬂexo; cœrulescente-albâ diaphanâ, aut ﬂavicante, apice
pallidè rubido.

THE LITTLE BUBBLE BULIMUS. Shell ovately conoid,
whorls four in number, convex, aperture somewhat
eﬀused, lip slightly reﬂected; transparent bluish
white or yellowish, pale ruddy colour at the apex.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 159.

Hab. Puerto Galero, Island of Mindoro, Philippines;
Cuming.

A most delicately coloured species of a transparent opal
white tinged with red at the apex.

Species 69. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DILATATUS. Bul. testâ crassiusculâ, abbreviato-
pyramidali, subventricosâ, anfractibus sex, augustis, co‐
lumellâ plano-dilatatâ, aperturâ parviusculâ; nigri-
cante-purpureâ, apicem versus rufescente, epidermide
fuscâ, hydrophanâ, columellâ et aperturœ fauce albis,
peritremate nigricante-purpureo marginato.

THE DILATED BULIMUS. Shell rather thick, abbreviately
pyramidal, somewhat ventricose, whorls six in
number, narrow, columella ﬂatly dilated, aperture
rather small; blackish-purple, reddish towards the
apex, with a brown hydrophanous epidermis, colu‐
mella and interior white, peritreme edged with
purple-black.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 42.

A solid contracted pyramidal shell approaching some‐
what in form to the B. leucophœa; and the hydrophanous
epidermis, of which this specimen exhibits the remains,
appears to be abraded in patches beneath the sutures as in
that species.

Singularly allied in form to the B. dilatatus, which is of
a dark purple-brown colour, but somewhat less ventricose.