BULIMUS.—PLATE XIV.

Species 81. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GRATELOUPI. Bul. testâ elongato-ovatâ, tenui,
pellucidâ, anfractibus sex ad septem, lœvibus, nitidis,
aut concentricè subtilissimè striatis, columellâ reﬂexâ,
labro simplici, arcuato, supernè sinuato; corneo-
stramineâ.

GRATELOUP’S BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, thin,
pellucid, whorls six to seven in number, smooth,
shining, or concentrically very ﬁnely striated, columella
reﬂected, lip simple, curved, sinuated at the upper
part; horny straw-colour.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 42.

Hab. Islands of Luzon and Panay, Philippines (at the
roots of trees); Cuming.

A transparent horny shell very ﬁnely marked throughout
with concentric striæ of growth, resulting from the curved
structure of the lip.

Species 82. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS COCHLEADES. Bul. testâ elongatâ, anfractibus
novem, latiusculis, lœvibus, convexis, aperturâ parvâ,
supernè contractâ, labro simplici; albidâ.

THE SPOON-LIKE BULIMUS. Shell elongated, whorls nine
in number, rather broad, smooth, convex, aperture
small, slightly contracted at the upper part, lip
simple; whitish.

Hab. Island of Cuyo, Philippines; Cuming.

This singular species, it may be observed, is represented
of the natural size, whilst the rest of the plate are all
more or less magniﬁed. Mr. Cuming only collected this
solitary specimen, which is quite unapproached by any
other. It is of extremely simple structure.

Species 83. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LICHENORUM. Bul. testâ oblongo-turritâ, um-
bilicatâ, aufractibus septem, subrotundatis, Iœvibus aut
tenuistriatis, columellâ reﬂexâ, aperturâ. parviusculâ,
labro simplici; cœrulescente-albâ, strigis perpaucis
cinereis obliquis, apice nigricante.

THE LICHEN BULIMUS. Shell oblong-turreted, whorls
seven in number, somewhat rounded, smooth or ﬁnely
striated, columella reﬂected, aperture rather small,
lip simple; bluish-white, with a few oblique ashy
streaks, apex blackish.

D’ORBIGNY, Voyage dans l’Amèr. mèrid. Moll. p. 264.

pl. 41. f. 9 to 11.

Hab. Cobija (on lichens); D’Orbigny. Chilon, Bolivia
(under dead trunks of Cacti); Bridges.

It is not without some doubt that I venture to refer
this shell to the above named species of D’Orbigny; yet
it accords suﬀiciently with his description and ﬁgure.

Species 84. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SCABIOSUS. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ, anfrac‐
tibus septem, convexis, peculiariter interruptè sulcatis
et striatis, columellâ reﬂexâ, aperturâ parvâ, labro
simplici; albidâ, rufo-fuscescente strigatâ el marmo-
ratâ, apicem versus nigricante.

THE SCURVY BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, whorls
seven in number, convex, peculiarly grooved and
striated in an interrupted manner, columella reﬂected,
aperture small, lip simple; whitish, streaked and
marked with light reddish-brown, blackish towards
the apex.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 74.

Hab. Cobija, Peru (under stones); Cuming.

Mainly distinguished by a roughened peculiarity of
sculpture which appears to have suggested the above name
to Mr. Sowerby, though no mention is made of it in his
description.

Species 85. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUPIFORMIS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-elongatâ,
anfractibus decem, convexis, Iœvibus aut tenuistriatis,
ad suturas minutè crenulatis, columellâ reﬂexâ, aperturâ
parvâ, labro simplici, subdilatato; cinereo-albidâ,
apicem versus nigricante.

THE PUPA-SHAPED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically elonga‐
ted, whorls ten in number, convex, smooth or ﬁnely
striated, minutely crenulated at the sutures, columella
reﬂected, aperture small, lip simple, slightly dilated;
ashy white, blackish towards the apex.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.

Hab. Huasco, Chili (under stones in shady places);
Cuming.

It is important to observe the minute sutural crenula-
tions which characterize this species, as Mr. Broderip
appears to have overlooked them.