BULIMUS.

PLATE XIII.

Species 58. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ZONULATUS. Bul. testâ conico-oblongâ, tenui,
umbilicatâ, anfractibus convexis, lœvibus, labro colu‐
mellari reﬂexo, umbilicum ferè occultante, externo sim-
plici; pallidè opaco-stramineâ, macularum pellucidarum
seriebus duabus cinctâ, anfractu ultimo zonulis duabus
castaneis ornato.

THE FINELY ZONED BULIMUS. Shell conically oblong,
thin, umbilicated, whorls convex, smooth, columellar
lip reﬂected so as almost to conceal the umbilicus,
outer lip simple; pale opake straw-colour, encircled
by two rows of transparent spots, last whorl orna‐
mented with two narrow chesnut zones.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 41.

Hab. Cabanatuan, Province of Nueva Eaja, Island of
Luzon; Cuming.

There is a very singular character attending this species;
the shell is of a thin transparent horny substance, covered
by an opake straw-coloured layer except in those places
by which the pattern is produced, the spots have thus an
appearance, so to speak, of little windows in the shell.

Species 70. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PANAMENSIS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenui,
vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque convexis, lœvibus,
aperturâ parviusculâ, labro simplici; pallidè fulvâ,
diaphanâ.

THE PANAMA BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, thin, slightly
umbilicated, whorls ﬁve in number, smooth, aperture
rather small, lip simple; pale fulvous colour, dia-
phanous.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.

Hab. King’s and Saboga Islands, Bay of Panama (on the
trunks of large trees); Cuming.

The form of this shell is extremely simple, and its
colour a semi-transparent nankeen.

Species 71. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TRANSLUCENS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenui,
valdè pellucidâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque,
subventricosis, lœvibus aut transversim et longitudina-
liter minutè striatis, labro simplici; corneo-lutescente.

THE TRANSPARENT BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, thin,

very pellucid, slightly umbilicated, whorls ﬁve in
number, smooth or transversely and longitudinally
minutely striated, lip simple; pale horny yellow.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 31.

Hab. King’s and Saboga Islands, Panama (upon the
trees); Cuming.

Of a beautiful transparent glassy structure, through
which the internal winding of the columella may be plainly
seen. It is very similar in form to the B. Panamensis,
and is from the same locality.

Species 72. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS EVANESCENS. Bul, testâ subabbreviato-pyrami-
dali, apice obtusâ, anfractibus quinque, convexis, lœvi-
bus, nitidiusculis, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro reﬂexo;
virescente-albâ, subdiaphanâ, lineâ nigrâ infra suturas,
parte circa columellam conspicué nigrâ.

THE EVANESCENT BULIMUS. Shell somewhat abbreviately
pyramidal, obtuse at the apex, whorls ﬁve in number,
convex, smooth, rather shining, aperture somewhat
small, lip reﬂected: greenish white, subdiaphanous,
with a black line beneath the sutures, and the part
around the columella conspicuously black.

PFEIFFER, (inedit?).

Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

A delicate semi-transparent shell easily recognised by
the black line between the sutures, and broader band
around the columella.

Species 73. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ADAMSII. Bul. testâ ovato-turritâ, sinistrali,
anfractibus convexis, lœvibus, aperturâ parviusculâ,
labro reﬂexo; virescente aut luteâ, maculis irregulari-
bus subquadratis, nigricante-viridibus medio confertim
uniseriatim cinctâ, interdum immaculatâ, parte circa
columellam purpureo-roseâ.

ADAMS’ BULIMUS. Shell ovately turreted, sinistral, whorls
convex, smooth, aperture rather small, lip reﬂected;
greenish or yellow, encircled round the middle with
a row of close-set irregular somewhat square blackish
green spots, sometimes unspotted, the part around
the columella purple-rose.

Hab. Eastern Coast of Borneo (on a tall tree in an islet
between Banguey and Balambangan); Adams.

June, 1848.