BULIMUS.—PLATE XIII.

An interesting new species discovered by Mr. Arthur
Adams, at the above mentioned locality, during the recent
expedition of H.M.S. Samarang. “A tree, partially cut
through at the base with axes,” says the author of the
valuable summary of Natural History attached to the
Narrative of that Voyage, “fell upon one of the carpenters
wooding on the island, depriving him at the time of sen‐
sation. What proved a misfortune to the man, however,
presented to science a new and beautiful species of Buli-
mus, which I discovered in considerable numbers and
variety adhering to the prostrate tree.” All the specimens
were reversed, of a yellow or yellowish green colour,
stained with purple rose about the columella, and mostly
encircled round the middle by a chain of square greenish
spots.

Species 74. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS EBURNEUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-oblongâ, an-
fractibus sex, rotundatis, lœvibus, politis, labro reﬂexo;
eburneâ, epidermide tenuissimâ stramineâ partim indutâ.

THE IVORY BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, whorls
six in number, rounded, smooth, polished, lip re‐
ﬂected; ivory white, partially covered with a very
slight straw-coloured epidermis.

Bulimus Diana var., Broderip.

Hab. — ?

Mr. Broderip has, I think erroneously, considered this
shell a variety of B. Diana; in form it diﬀers in the
whorls being more rounded, whilst it is of thinner texture
and of a pure diaphanous white, the surface being charac‐
terized by an extremely delicate natural polish.

Species 75. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ERYTHROSTOMA. Bul, testâ Subgloboso-ovatâ,
umbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque rotundatis, concentricè
rudè striatis, columellâ sublatè reﬂexâ, labro simplici;
opaco-albâ, columellâ apice et aperturœ fauce roseis.

THE RED-MOUTH BULIMUS. Shell somewhat globosely
ovate, umbilicated, whorls ﬁve in number, rounded,
concentrically rudely striated, columella rather widely
reﬂected, lip simple; opake-white, columella, apex,
and interior of the aperture rose-pink.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833. p. 37.

Hab. Huasco, Chili (under bushes); Cuming.

Of a peculiar bluish opake white having the columella,
apex, and aperture coloured with a delicate rose-pink.