BULIMUS.—PLATE XV.

VALENCIENNES, Humboldt, Zool. v. ii. p. 244. pl. 55. f. 4.
Bulimus iostoma, Sowerby.

Hab. Chili and Peru (on trees); Cuming.

At the Isle of Plata Mr. Cuming found this beautiful
and well known species in such abundance upon trees
stripped of their leaves, that they looked as if laden with
fruit. The animal yields a rich purple juice.

Species 89. (Fig, a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PORPHYRIUS. Bul. testâ subelongato-ovatâ,
spirâ acuminatâ, anfractibus sex, coucentricè rudè et
irregulariter elevato-striatis, per marginem superiorem.
hic illic minutè crenulatis; fumeo-fuscâ, striis concen-
tricis hic illic albis.

THE PORPHYRY BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately
ovate, spire acuminated, whorls six in number, con‐
centrically, rudely, and irregularly elevately striated,
and minutely crenulated here and there along the
upper margin; smoky brown, concentric striæ here
and there white.

PFEIFFER, Zool. Pro. Soc. 1846. p. 114

Hab.—?

The growth of this shell not being completed, it is im‐
possible to say whether the lip would remain simple or be
reﬂected at maturity. It is a very characteristic species and
cannot easily be confounded with any other; the white
ridge-like striæ have a rubbed appearance and being on
a dark ground have a very peculiar aspect. Mr. Cuming
has no information as to its locality.

Species 90. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ZEBRA. Bul. testâ ovatâ, tenuiculâ, imperforatâ,
ventricosâ, spirâ acuminatâ, anfractibus subrotundatis
Iœvibus, columellâ rectâ, labro simplici; viridi, ﬂam-
mis strigisque minoribus peculiariter undatis ﬂavican-
tibus ornatâ, columellâ albâ, labro intus castaneo-mar-
ginato.

THE ZEBRA BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather thin, imper‐
forated, ventricose, spire acuminated, whorls some‐
what rounded, smooth, columella straight, lip simple;
green, ornamented with peculiarly waved ﬂames and
lesser streaks of yellow, columella white, lip edged
internally with chesnut.

Buccinum zebra, Muller, Verm. Terr, et Fluv. Hist. p. 138.

Bulimus undatus, Bruguière.

Varietates.

Bulimus zigzag, Lamarck.
Bulimus princeps, Sowerby.

Hab. Nicaragua, Panama, Costa Rico, Veragua, Pernam-
buco, West Indies.

Few species of the genus aﬀect a wider range of country
than the present, and it is owing to the diﬀerent aspects
under which it is found, that the above-recorded synonymes
have arisen. The beautiful variety ﬁgured in the Concho-
logical Illustrations under the name B. princeps was col‐
lected by Mr. Cuming in the woods of Nicaragua where it
inhabits the hollows of trees; the more common variety,
known as the B. undatus, is found in the West Indies and
Brazil, and, extremely rich in colour, at Panama and Costa
Rico.