BULIMUS.—PLATE XVI.

The specimen selected for representation is the Var. D.
marmorata of D’Orbigny, the larger varieties in which
there are none of the transverse lines serving to charac‐
terize this, approximate rather to the B. Tupacii of the
same author.

Species 95. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS COQUIMBENSIS. Bul. testâ subfusiformi-ovatâ,
tanuissimâ, ventricosâ, anfractibus sex, convexis, subob-
liquis, longitudinaliter rudè striatis, anfractu ultimo
maximo, aperturâ subamplâ, labro simplici; albidâ,
fuscescente tinctâ, punctis maculis strigisque nigrican-
tibus aspersâ

THE COQUIMBO BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiformly
ovate, very thin, ventricose, whorls six in number,
rather oblique, longitudinally rudely striated, last
whorl very large, aperture rather large, lip simple;
whitish, stained with light brown, and sprinkled with
blackish dots, blotches and streaks.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 30.

Succinea Coquimbensis, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. Mountains of Coquimbo; Cuming.

The painting of this species is also not much unlike that
of the B. Broderipii from which it diﬀers most essentially
in form.

Species 96. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PIPERATUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, tenui, valdè in-
ﬂatâ, spirâ breviusculâ, acuminatâ, aufractibus quinque,
ultimo maximo, obscurè rugoso-granulatis et striatis,
aperturâ peramplâ, labro vix reﬂexo; albidâ, punctis
fuscis perpaucis aspersâ, epidermide ﬂavidâ indutâ.

THE PEPPERED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, greatly in‐
ﬂated, spire rather short, acuminated, whorls ﬁve in
number, the last very large, obscurely roughly gra‐
nulated and striated, aperture very large, lip scarcely
reﬂected; whitish, sprinkled with a yellowish epi‐
dermis.

SOWERBY, Conch. Illus. f. 93.

Hab. Hualaga, Peru.

The most inﬂated of the Succinea-form species, distin‐
guished by a more economical style of painting than its
congeners.

Species 97. (Mus. Cuming).

BULIMUS BRODERIPII. Bul. testâ ovatâ, abbreviato-fusi-
formi, tenuissimâ, valdè inﬂatâ, spirâ brevi, anfractibus
quinque, ultimo maximo, sub lente minutè granulato-
rugosis, aperturâ peramplâ, labro simplici; albidâ,
nigro fulvoque conspicuè et elegantissimè maculatâ et
variegatâ.

BRODERIP’S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, abbreviately fusi‐
form, very thin, greatly inﬂated, spire short, whorls
ﬁve in number, the last very large, minutely granu-
lately rugose under the lens, aperture very large, lip
simple; whitish, conspicuously and very elegantly
blotched and variegated with black and fulvous
brown.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 30.

Succinea Broderipii, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. Copiapo, Chili (in the ﬁssures of rocks); Cuming.

Much smaller varieties of this species occur than that
selected for ﬁguring and more richly coloured; it is an
extremely thin and fragile shell.