BULIMUS.

PLATE XVI.

Species 91. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PŒCILUS. Bul. testâ elongato-ovatâ, tenui, ven-
tricosâ, subumbilicatâ, spirâ acuminatâ, anfractibus sex
aut septem, longitudinaliter striatis, labro tenui, sim-
plici; albidâ, fuscescente tinctâ, cæuleo-nigricante variè
fasciatâ aut maculatâ aut punctatâ, apice peculiariter
nigricante.

THE VARI‐PICTURED BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate,
thin, ventricose, slightly umbilicated, spire acumina‐
ted, whorls six or seven in number, longitudinally
striated, lip thin, simple; whitish, stained with pale
brown and variously banded, or blotched, or dotted
with bluish black, apex peculiarly blackish.

D’ORBIGNY, Voyage dans l’Amer. Mérid. p. 286. pl. 31.
f. 1 to 10.

Hab. Bolivian Andes, South America (at the roots of
shrubs); D’Orbigny, Bridges.

An extremely variable species of which D’Orbigny has
considered it necessary to give ten ﬁgures, mainly distin‐
guished by its acuminated growth and general disposition
of colour.

Species 92. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUNCTULIFER. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenuis-
simâ, umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, longitudinaliter stri‐
atis, sub lente undique creberrimè plano-granulosis, per
marginem superiorem hic illic minutè rudè crenulatis,
labro tenui simplici, columellari reﬂexo; albidâ, fusco
irregulariter lineatâ et punctatâ, epidermide ﬂavicante
indutâ.

THE DOTTED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, very thin,
umbilicated, whorls six in number, longitudinally
striated, under the lens very closely ﬂatly granulated,
minutely rudely crenulated here and there along the
upper margin, lip thin, simple, the columellar lip
reﬂected back; whitish, irregularly lineated and dotted
with brown, covered with a yellowish epidermis.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 39.

Hab. Chili, La Questa Prada, Cuming; La Questa de
Arenos, Huasco, Bridges.

Approaching the B. granulosus in form and sculpture,
the painting of this shell resembles that of B. Broderipii,
though easily distinguished by its dotted indeﬁnite style
of pattern.

Species 93. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS RUPICOLUS. Bul. testâ fusiformi-ovatâ, tenui,
spirâ subacutâ, anfractibus quinque ultimo maximo,
longitudinaliter rudè striatis, undique minutè granulato-
rugosis, labro simplici; albidâ, maculis longitudinali-
bus punctisque nigricantibus seriatim pictâ, epidermide
ﬂavicante indutâ.

THE ROCK‐INHABITING BULIMUS. Shell fusiformly ovate,
thin, spire rather sharp, whorls ﬁve in number, the
last very large, longitudinally rudely striated and
everywhere minutely granulately rough, lip simple;
whitish, painted with rows of black longitudinal
blotches and dots, covered with a yellowish epidermis.

Succinea variegata, Pfeiﬀer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 187.

Hab. Valleys in the north of Coquimbo (in the crevices of
rocks); Bridges.

I think Dr. Pfeiﬀer has greatly erred in referring this
group of Bulimi to the genus Succinea, the type of which
is an amphibious animal, like the Lymnea, aﬀecting damp
and swampy situations, such as the banks of stagnant
pools, in marshes, or on ﬂoating vegetable matter. The
habits of these species are much opposed to this; dwelling
in the dry crevices of the rocks which appear in the sandy
plains west of the Andes, where there is little or no mois‐
ture beyond that which arises from the dews.

The name variegatus cannot be adopted, in consequence
of its having been used under the head of Bulimus by
Bruguiére in referrence to the Tornatella ﬂammea.

Species 94. (Mus. Cumiug.)

BULIMUS THAMNOICUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tumi-
diusculâ, umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, convexis, undique
minutè seriatim granulatis, per marginem superiorem
crenulatis; fuscescente, lineis nigricantibus nebulosis
irregularibus cingulatâ.

THE SHRUB‐INHABITING BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate,
rather swollen, umbilicated, whorls six in number,
convex, minutely granulated throughout in rows,
crenulated along the upper margin; light brown
encircled with irregular clouded blackish lines.

D’ORBIGNY, Voyage dans l’Amer. Mérid. p. 290. pl. 37.
f. 4 to 9.

Hab. Eastern side of the Bolivian Andes, (at the roots of
bushes and, during the dry season, in the crevices of
rocks); D’Orbigny, Bridges.

May, 1848.