BULIMUS.

PLATE XV.

Species 86. (Fig. a, b, c, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TUPACII. Bul. testâ oblongo-vel elongato-ovatâ,
subumbilicatâ, ventricosâ, anfractibus septem, concen-
tricè fortiter et irregulariter striatis, per marginem
superiorem plus minusve crenatis, labro vix reﬂexo;
olivaceo-brunneâ, interdum quinquefasciatâ, raro ﬂavi-
cante, columellâ labroque albis,

TUPAC’S BULIMUS. Shell oblong or elongately ovate,
slightly umbilicated, ventricose, whorls seven in
number, concentrically strongly and irregularly stri
ated, more or less crenated along the upper margin,
lip scarcely reﬂected; olive-brown, sometimes ﬁve-
banded, rarely pale yellow, lip and columella white.

D’ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l’Amer. Mérid. p. 292. pl. 38. f. 1
to 5.

Hab. Provinces of Yungas, Sicasica, and Ayupaya, Bolivia
(found on garden walls and on bushes at an elevation
of more than 9000 feet); D’Orbigny, Bridges.

The growth of this species varies, as represented by the
specimens ﬁgured, from a swollen oblong shape to a more
elongated form. Sometimes the shell is banded, and it is
always more or less crenulated along the margin next the
sutures. The colour is mostly a dull livid olive brown,
but the specimen Fig. c, collected by Mr. Bridges, is a
pale yellow.

Species 87. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ROSACEUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, crassiuscu‐
lâ, ventricosâ, striatâ aut sub lente minutissimè granu-
latâ, spirâ obtuso-depressâ, anfractibus quinque, per
marginem superiorem plus minusve crenulatis, labro
latiusculo, reﬂexo; olivaceo-viridi, apicem versus ro‐
saceâ, epidermide tenuissimâ sœpe marmoratâ, columellâ
labroque albidis, interdum rosaceo-aurantiis.

THE ROSE-COLOURED BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate, rather
thick, ventricose, striated or very minutely granulated
under the lens, spire obtusely depressed, whorls ﬁve
in number, more or less crenulated along the upper
margin, lip rather broad, reﬂected; olive-green, rose-
coloured towards the apex, frequently marbled with
a very light epidermis; lip and columella white,
sometimes rose-orange.

KING, Zool. Journ vol. v. p. 341.

Varietates.

Bulimus Chilensis, Broderip (not of Lesson).
Bulimus pachycheilus, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. Chili (under stones and in the sand); King;
Cuming, D’Orbigny. Bolivia (under trunks of trees):
Bridges.

The B. rosaceus inhabits a wide range of country and is
found in very diﬀerent states. The variety Fig. a, which
may be regarded as the typical form, inhabits the environs
of Valparaiso; that represented at Fig. b, distinguished
by its rude concentric striæ, strong crenulations, and warm
orange colouring of the lip and interior, was collected in
great plenty and with little or no variation at Huasco,
Chili; and at Cocapata, Bolivia, a variety of still larger
size occurs of thin light growth with scarcely any indication
of crenulations or striæ. At Huasco, the species was
also collected by Mr. Bridges in a state quite distinct from
these, of much smaller dimensions, paler in colour, and
of a minutely granulated satiny hue. This is the B.
pachycheilus of Pfeiﬀer, and apparently the shell from
Bahia Blanca taken by D’Orbigny for the B. nucleus with
which he does not seem to be acquainted. Another con‐
dition of the B. rosaceus is that of similar size from Co-
quimbo, described by Mr. Sowerby as a distinct species
under the name B. Chilensis. It should be observed that
the eggs of these smaller species are of a more oblong
form than those of the ﬁrst mentioned.

Species 88. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PHASIANELLUS. Bul. oblongo-ovatâ, crassius-
culâ, anfractibus quinque, ventricosis, leviter striatis,
per marginem superiorem in anfractu ultimo et penul-
timo crenulatis, columellâ subintortâ, labro incrassato,
reﬂexo; violascente-griseâ, maculis transversis parvis
numerosis irregularibus violaceo-fuscescentibus pictâ,
columellâ labroque intensè violaceis.

THE PHEASANT-MARKED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate,
rather thick, whorls ﬁve in number, ventricose, slightly
striated, crenulated along the upper margin in the
last and penultimate whorls, columella a little twisted,
lip thickened, reﬂected; violet-grey, painted with
numerous irregular small transverse blotches of
violet-brown, lip and columella deep violet.

May, 1848.