BULIMUS.—PLATE XIX.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 33.

Hab. Monte Video, Buenos Ayres (on small trees in
swampy places); Cuming.

A very delicate transparent species in which the whorls
are concentrically marked with ﬁne opake-white striæ.

Species 115. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS COTURNIX. Bul. testâ globoso-ovatâ, tenui, in-
ﬂatâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque, ultimo max-
imo; labro simplici; fuscescente-albâ, maculis grandi-
bus numerosis ustulato-castaneis tinctâ.

THE QUAIL BULIMUS. Shell globosely ovate, thin, inﬂated,
scarcely umbilicated, whorls ﬁve in number, the last
very large, lip simple; brownish-white, stained with
numerous large blotches of burnt-chesnut.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 33.

Hab. Huasco, Chili (on dry stones); Cuming, D'Orbigny.

This is certainly not a variety of B. Broderipii as M.
D'Orbigny intimates, it is, with little or no variation, of a
more globose form and another style of painting.

Species 116. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DRAPARNAUDI. Bul. testâ subpyramidali-ovatâ,
anfractibus septem convexis, labro simplici; albâ,
strigis latiusculis cæruleis, roseis, et opaco-albis, lineis
nigris interdum subtiliter undatis interspersis, pulcher-
rimè longitudinaliter pictâ.

DRAPARNAUDS' BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally
ovate, whorls seven in number, convex, lip simple;

white, very beautifully painted longitudinally with
rather broad streaks of blue, pink, and opake white,
interspersed with black lines which are sometimes
ﬁnely waved.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 113.

Hab. Chilon, Bolivia (on the trunks of Cacti); Bridges.

This is truly a gem, exhibiting the gayest display of
colours of any of the cactivorous species.

Species 117. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BRIDGESII. Bul. testâ ovatâ, umbilicatâ, pel-
lucidâ, apice subobtusâ, anfractibus quatuor, striis con-
fertissimè et subtilissimè decussatis, aperturâ parvius-
culâ, labro latè reﬂexo, ferè integro; sericeo-ﬂavescente,
peritremate albo.

BRIDGES' BULIMUS. Shell ovate, umbilicated, pellucid,
rather obtuse at the apex, whorls four in number,
very closely and ﬁnely decussated with striæ, aperture
rather small, lip broadly reﬂected, almost entire;
silken yellow, peritreme white.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 186.

Hab. Frierina, Huasco, Chili (under stones); Bridges.

A delicate transparent shell, resembling B. rosaceus in
form, but certainly distinct from that species. The whorls
are not crenulated along the upper edge, nor is there the
least tinge of rose-colouring; it has more the transparency
of a silkworm cocoon.