BULIMUS.

PLATE XVIII.

Species 103. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NITIDUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-ovatâ, tenui,
subpellucidâ, anfractibus sex, convexis, longitudinaliter
fortiter elevato-striatis, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro
simplici; opalescente-lacteâ, strigis cœrulescente-fuscis
longitudinalibus ornatâ, apice nigricante.

THE SHINING BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally ovate, thin,
somewhat transparent, whorls six in number, convex,
longitudinally strongly elevately striated, aperture
rather small, lip simple; opalescent cream-colour,
ornamented with longitudinal bluish-brown streaks,
apex blackish.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, f. 31.

Ejusdem var. lactea.

Bulimus cactivorus, Broderip.

Hab. Columbia and Peru; Cuming.

Of a delicate opalescent cream-colour with a black apex,
and longitudinally streaked with blue-brown, a neat ﬁnely
corded appearance being imparted to the shell in conse‐
quence of the striæ which cross the dark streaks remaining
cream-colour. The B. cactivorus of Broderip is merely a
variety having no streaks.

Species 104. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS VARIANS. Bul. testâ elongatâ, tenui, umbilicatâ,
anfractibus septem, convexis, longitudinaliter hic illic
rudè striatis, aperturâ parvâ, labro simplici, albâ aut
rubellâ, castaneo sœpissimè aut zonulatâ aut longitu‐
dinaliter variegatâ et strigatâ.

THE VARIABLE BULIMUS. Shell elongated, thin, umbili-
cated, whorls seven in number, convex, longitudinally
here and there rudely striated, aperture small, lip
simple; white or reddish, most frequently zoned or
longitudinally streaked and variegated with chesnut.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 106.

Ejusdem varietates.

B. pulchellus and rubellus.

Hab. On the mountains about Truxillo, Peru; Cuming.

The present is a remarkable instance of the variation of
colour and pattern in one species in the same locality.
The variety Fig. a, (B. rubellus, Brod.) is of a simple
reddish nankeen colour; Fig. b, (B. pulchellus, Brod.) is
white, reddish towards the apex, encircled by a regular

series of dark brown zones; and Fig. c, (B. varians,
Brod.) is of the same ground tint as Fig. a, with the
addition of numerous irregular mottled longitudinal
purple-brown streaks. All are characterized by a dark
band in the umbilicus which is rather large.

Species 105. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LEMNISCATUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, ventricosâ am-
pliter umbilicalâ, spirâ subpyramidali, acutâ, anfracti‐
bus septem, rotundatis, Iœvibus, labro simplici, albidâ,
vittis fuscis peculiariter interruptis circumdatâ, colu‐
mellâ et aperturœ fauce roseo.

THE RIBANDED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, largely umbili-
cated, spire somewhat pyramidal, sharp, whorls seven
in number, rounded, smooth, lip simple; whitish,
surrounded by peculiarly interrupted brown ﬁllets,
columella and interior of the aperture pink.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 271.

Bulimus vittatus, Broderip (not of Spix).

Hab. Ilo, Peru; Cuming.

The brown bands or ﬁllets which characterize this
species are broken up in a peculiar manner into square
blotches divided in part by a light transverse dash of
white; the columella and interior are pink.

M. D’Orbigny appears to have confounded this and
the B. Hennahii together; his Fig. 8 (Voy. Amer. Mérid.
Pl. 30.) is a variety of the former species, whilst his
Fig. 3 and 4 are of the latter.

Species 106. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FUSOIDES. Bul. testâ elongatâ, basi eﬀusâ, an-
fractibus sex, Iœvibus, nitidis, columellâ obliquè contortâ,
labro vix reﬂexo; albidâ, strigis cœrulescente-fuscis
angustis undatis longitudinaliter ornatâ, columellâ in‐
tensè roseo-purpureâ, labro albo.

THE FUSOID BULIMUS. Shell elongated, eﬀused at the
base, whorls six in number, smooth, shining, columella
obliquely twisted, lip scarcely reﬂected; whitish,
ornamented longitudinally with narrow waved streaks
of bluish-brown, columella deep rose-purple, lip white.

D’ORBIGNY, Voyage dans l’Amer. Mérid. p. 215.

Hab. Cacopata, Bolivia (in the woods); Bridges.

May, 1848.