BULIMUS.—PLATE XVIII.

Of this very characteristic and pretty species, collected
in perfection by Mr. Bridges, M. D’Orbigny found but
two dead specimens in a damp ravine near the banks of
the Rio San Mateo, Cochabamba, Bolivia, on the North-
East side of the Eastern Cordilleras. It is chieﬂy re‐
markable on account of the patulate eﬀused formation of
the aperture and deep rose-purple stained columella.

Species 107. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULlMUS TIGRIS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-elongatâ, ampli-
ter umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, Iœvibus aut subti-
liter striatis, labro columellari sublatè expanso, externo
simplici, subeﬀuso; albidâ, purpureo‐fuscescente latè
strigatâ.

THE TIGER BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically elongated, largely
umbilicated, whorls seven in number, smooth or
ﬁnely striated, columellar lip widely expanded, outer
lip simple, somewhat eﬀused; white, broadly streaked
with purple-brown.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 107.

Hab. Truxillo, Peru (on bushes on the mountains);
Cuming.

Though approximating very closely to the B. varians,
there is a suﬃcient variation in the form of this species to
render it distinct; the body-whorl is of greater length
and the aperture more eﬀused.

Species 108. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ONCA. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ, tenui, sub-
pellucidâ, anfractibus quinque, ultimo maximo, obliquis,
longitudinaliter striatis, per marginem superiorem levi-
ter crenulatis, labro vix reﬂexo; violaceo-fulvâ, guttis
castaneis hic illic aspersâ, columellâ et aperturœ fauce
rosaceis.

THE JAGUAR BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, thin
rather transparent, whorls ﬁve in number, the last
very large, oblique, longitudinally striated, slightly
crenulated along the upper margin, lip scarcely re‐
ﬂected, violaceous fulvous colour, sprinkled here and

there with large chesnut dots; columella and interior
of the aperture pink.

D’ORBIGNY, Voyage dans l’Amer. Mérid. p. 295. pl. 30.
f. 1 and 2.

Hab. Tutulima, Bolivia.

It is entirely owing to the enterprising spirit of M.
Alcide D’Orbigny that we are indebted for the knowledge
of this beautiful species. “Desiring to ﬁnd a more im‐
mediate communication,” says that intelligent traveller,
“between Cochabamba and Moxas, Bolivia, we made a
proposition to the Government of that Republic to make
the attempt. The President, General Santa Cruz, furnished
us with the means to achieve this undertaking. We set
out on foot with a party of Indians to carry provisions,
and after passing forty days amid the precipices of unin‐
habited mountains on the north-east side of the Eastern
Cordilleras, and enduring a thousand diﬃculties and pri‐
vations we accomplished our journey. It was in this
excursion not far from Tutulima that we observed the
Bulimus onca at the bottom of almost inaccessible ravines
in damp woody situations, where it is of rare occurrence
and diﬃcult to procure, from its habit of burying itself in
the earth.”

Species 109. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MODESTUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali, turritâ, am-
pliter umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, angustis, rotun‐
datis, fortiter et creberrimè concentricè elevato-striatis,
labro simplici; fuscescente, apicem versus albidâ, striis
concentricis albis.

THE MODEST BULIMUS. Shell pyramidal, turreted, largely
umbilicated, whorls seven in number, narrow, rounded,
strongly and very closely concentrically elevately
striated; light brown, whitish towards the apex,
striæ whitish.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 106.

Hab. Huacho, Peru, (on small bushes on the mountains);
Cuming.

The whorls of this species have rather a tubercular style
of growth.