BULIMUS.

PLATE XVII.

Species 98. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CULMINANS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenuiculâ,
anfractibus sex, subrotundatis, longitudinaliter creber-
rimè et subrudè striatis, per marginem superiorem subti-
liter crenulatis, labro simplici; ﬂavido-olivacâ, apicem
versus cinerascente.

THE LOFTY‐DWELLING BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate,
rather thin, whorls six in number, somewhat rounded,
longitudinally very closely and rather rudely striated,
ﬁnely crenulated along the upper margin, lip simple;
yellowish, faintly olive, pale ash-coloured towards the
apex.

D’ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l’Amer. Mérid. p. 289.

Hab. Lake of Titicaca, Bolivia (under stones and at the
roots of shrubs upon the mountains); D’Orbigny.

M. D’Orbigny describes this species as inhabiting the
most elevated regions of the Bolivian Andes. It is of
simple structure and not distinguished by any marked
peculiarity of colouring.

Species 99. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NUCLEUS. Bul. testâ globoso-ovatâ, tenuiculâ,
ventricosâ, vix umbilicatâ, sub lente minutissimè granu-
latâ, anfractibus quatuor, rotundatis, labro reﬂexo;
luteo-olivaceâ, peritremate vividè aurantio.

THE KERNEL BULIMUS. Shell globosely ovate, rather
thin, ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, very minutely
granulated under the lens, whorls four in number,
rounded, lip reﬂected; yellowish olive, peritreme
bright orange.

SOWERBY, Conch. Illus., f. 33.

Hab. Maldanao, vicinity of Monte Video.

I doubt very much if the shell which D’Orbigny refers
to this species (Voy. dans l’Amer. Mérid. p. 305) is any‐
thing more than a variety of B. rosaceus. It will be seen
by the accompanying ﬁgure how much this shell resembles
that species, though readily distinguished by its light
globose structure and bright orange peritreme.

Species 100. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SORDIDUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, ventricosâ, ampli-
ter umbilicatâ, spirâ breviusculâ, acutâ, anfractibus
sex, convexis, ultimo maximo, inﬂato, creberrimè gra‐

nulatis, labro tenui latè eﬀuso; sordidè albâ, aurantio-
castaneo plus minusve tinctâ et fasciatâ.

THE DULL BULIMUS. Shell ovate, ventricose, largely
umbilicated, spire rather short, acute, whorls six in
number, the last very large and inﬂated, very closely
granulated, lip thin, widely eﬀused; dull white, more
or less stained or variegated with orange chesnut.

LESSON, Zool. Voy. Coquille, pl. 13. f. 3.

Bulimi Proteus and mutabilis, Broderip.
Bulimus Cora, D’Orbigny.

Hab. Mountains of Peru (under stones); Cuming.

The name given to this species by Mr. Broderip is a
far more appropriate one on account of its Protean aspect
and pretty varieties of painting, than that to which it is
entitled. First collected by M. Lesson during the voyage
of the Coquille, it is to Mr. Cuming we are mainly
indebted for the beautiful varieties obtained in diﬀerent
parts of Peru, St. Jacinta, Pacosmayo, Truxillo, Santos,
&c., out of which Mr. Broderip proposed a second species
under the name B. mutabilis. M. D’Orbigny collected
the B. sordidus on the arid ridges of the mountain of San-
Cristobal near Lima, and I believe his B. Cora from the
interior of Peru, of which Mr. Cuming possesses authentic
specimens, to be only another state of the same species.

Species 101. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PERUVIANUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenui,
imperforatâ, spirâ subacutâ, anfractibus quinque longi-
tudinaliter rudè et irregulariter rugoso-striatis, inter-
dum transversim obscurè punctato-sulcatis, labro sim-
plici, tenuissimo; griseâ aut ﬂavidâ aut fuscescente,
sœpè roseo et cœrulescente variegatâ.

THE PERUVIAN BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, thin, im‐
perforated, spire rather sharp, whorls ﬁve in number,
longitudinally rudely and irregularly rugosely striated,
sometimes encircled with obscure punctured grooves,
lip simple, very thin; greyish or pale yellow or light
brown, frequently variegated with pink or blue.

BRUGUIERE, Dict. Enc. Méth. no. 37.

Bulimi Gravesii and corrugatus, King.

Hab. Chili (at the roots of shrubs); Cuming.

There is not much variation in the form of this species,
but it diﬀers considerably in colour. The animal, unlike

May, 1848.