BULIMUS.—PLATE XX.

THE SLIGHTLY WRINKLED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically
elongated, somewhat Pupa-shaped, umbilicated, apex
subpapillary, whorls eight in number, slightly concen-
trically wrinkled, columella reﬂected over the umbili-
cus, aperture small, lip very slightly dilated; olive-
brown, encircled round the middle with a single pale
band.

SOWERBY, Conch, Illus. Bul. f. 85.

Hab. Gallapagos Islands; Cuming.

Of a peculiar red-tinged olive brown-colour and chrysa-
lis-like form.

Species 124. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TURRITUS. Bul. testâ elongato-turritâ, imper-
foratâ, spirœ suturis impressis, anfractibus decem ad
undecem, lœvibus, subdepresso-convexis, aperturâ parvâ,
labro simplici; albidâ, rufo-fuscescente trifasciatâ.

THE TURRETED BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted,
imperforated, sutures of the spire impressed, whorls
ten to eleven in number, smooth, depressly convex,
aperture small, lip simple; whitish, encircled with
four reddish-brown bands.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 106.

Hab. Truxillo, Peru (on the mountains); Cuming.

The uppermost of the bands is next the suture of each
whorl, the lowest is only shown in the last whorl.

Species 125. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SCULPTURATUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, tenuiculâ, vix
umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, subventricosis, conspicuè
reticulatim rugatis, interstitiis transversim corrugato-
striatis, columellâ simplicè reﬂexâ, labro tenui; intus
extusque ﬁctili.

THE SCULPTURED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather thin,
scarcely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, some-
what ventricose, conspicuously reticulately wrinkled,
the interstices being corrugately striated, columella
simply reﬂected, lip thin; earthy brown within and
without.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 29.

Hab. Gallapagos Islands (on bushes); Darwin.

The sculpture of this species is precisely that already
described in the B. rugiferus and Darwinii, from both of
which it diﬀers in form, and from the latter more especially
by the absence of any callous tubercles in the aperture.

Species 126. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CALVUS. Bul. testâ oblongâ, subturritâ, umbi-
licatâ, anfractibus septem rotundatis, lœvibus aut
minutè concentricè striatis, aperturâ parvâ, labro vix
dilatato; pallescente brunneâ, ad apicem nigricante.

THE BALD BULIMUS. Shell oblong, somewhat turreted,
umbilicated, whorls seven in number, rounded,
smooth or minutely concentrically striated, aperture
small, lip slightly dilated; pale brown, blackish
at the apex.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 72.

Hab. James' Island, Gallapagos (on dried tufts of grass);
Cuming.

A smooth pale brown shell having somewhat an
Achatinella-like appearance.

Species 127. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUSTULOSUS. Bul. testâ subfusiformi-ovatâ,
ampliter umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, subrugosis, striis
rudibus granulatis, moniliformibus, longitudinaliter ex-
sculptis, columellâ supra umbilicum reﬂexâ, labro
simplici; intus extusque sordidè albâ.

THE PUSTULOSE BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiformly
ovate, largely umbilicated, whorls six in number,
rather rough, longitudinally engraved with rude
granulated necklace-like striæ, columella reﬂected
over the umbilicus, lip simple; dead white within
and without.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.

Hab. Huasco, Chili (under stones on elevated ground);
Cuming.

The necklace-like granulated striæ with which this
species is longitudinally sculptured are extremely charac-
teristic.