BULIMUS.—PLATE XXIII.

Species 150. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULlMUS NUX. Bul. testâ pyramidali-ovatâ, umbilicatâ,
anfractibus septem, concentricè rudè corrugato-striatis,
aperturâ subquadrato-ovatâ, paululum eﬀusâ; olivaceo-
fuscâ, rufescente tinctâ, apice nigricante, aperturœ
fauce cœrulescente-albâ, prope marginem fuscâ.

THE NUT BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally ovate, umbilicated,
whorls seven in number, concentrically rudely stria-
ted in a wrinkled manner, aperture somewhat squarely
ovate, slightly eﬀused; olive-brown, stained with
rusty red, blackish at the apex, interior of the aper-
ture bluish-white, brown near the edge.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 125.

Hab. Charles's Island, Gallapagos (on bushes); Cuming.

The aperture of this species is frequently compressed at
the sides so as to give it a somewhat square aspect.

Species 151. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DERELICTUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-ovatâ, am-
pliter umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, subrotundatis, subti-
lissimè granoso-striatis, columellâ labroque expansis,
apice papillari; corneo-albidâ, opaco-albo hic illic
conspersâ.

THE FORSAKEN BULIMUS Shell acuminately ovate,
largely umbilicated, whorls six in number, somewhat
rounded, very ﬁnely granosely striated, lip and colu-
mella expanded, apex papillary; ﬂesh-white, sprinkled
here and there with opake-white.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 107.

Hab. Cobija; Cuming.

The name attached to this shell is intended to denote
the solitary habitat in which it was found by Mr. Cuming,
on ﬂat rocks without soil or verdure, all being desolate for
a league around. M. D'Orbigny notices having collected
it of a pinky hue, at a greater elevation upon some lichens
and cactuses.

Species 152. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS VEXILLUM. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, corneâ,
subpellucidâ, anfractibus quinque, lœvigatis, nitidis;
luteo-albicante, fasciis plurimis castaneis cingulatâ.

THE FLAG BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, horny, semi-
transparent, whorls ﬁve in number, smooth, shining;
yellowish-white, encircled by numerous chesnut
bands.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.

Hab. King's and Saboga Islands, Bay of Panama (on the
trunks of large trees); Cuming.

This comparatively well-known species has, I believe,
been called B. alternatus by Dr. Beck, in consequence of
Mr. Broderip's name having been formerly applied by
Bruguière to the shell commonly known as Achatina vexil-
lum. M. Deshayes does not, however, think there is any
necessity for this change, and lest it might add to the
confusion I have avoided it.

Species 153. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PESSULATUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, tenui, inﬂatâ,
anfractibus quinque, rotundatis, ventricosis, lœvibus,
labro simplici; pellucido-corneâ, epidermide ferrugineo-
albo opaco, castaneo longitudinaliter strigatâ, strigis
distantibus, conspicuis.

THE CROSS-BARRED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, inﬂated,
whorls ﬁve in number, rounded, ventricose, smooth,
lip simple; transparent horny, covered by a rusty
white opake epidermis, crossed with conspicuous
distant longitudinal streaks.

Hab. Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia (on bushes and high
grass); Bridges.

This has much the appearance of being an immature
shell, but the specimens collected by Mr. Bridges are all
alike, and are without doubt of adult growth.

Species 154. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS AFFINIS. Bul. testâ elongato-ovatâ, subfusiformi,
umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, convexis, longitudina-
liter rugoso-striatis, labro simplici; pallidè corneâ,
maculis strigisque undatis opaco-albis profusè notatâ,
apice roseâ.

THE ALLIED BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, somewhat
fusiform, umbilicated, whorls seven in number,
convex, longitudinally roughly striated, lip simple;
pale horny, profusely marked with opake-white waved
streaks and spots, pink at the apex.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832., p. 105.

Hab. Mexillones, desert of Atacama, Peru (in small
crevices of the dry earth at an elevation of 2,000 feet
above the sea); Cuming.

A light transparent shell covered with delicate ﬂakes of
opake-white.