BULIMUS.—PLATE XXIV.

in a smaller state deprived of epidermis. The specimen
here represented, is from the choice collection of Mr.
Dennison, and Mr. Cuming possesses it almost equally
ﬁne, selected from the stores of Mr. Dyson obtained during
a recent expedition to Venezuela.

The journey performed by Mr. Dyson in this fertile
district of South America, in search of objects of natural
history, was undertaken through the generosity of a limited
number of zoological friends, who, with the hope of en-
riching their collections, were at the same time desirous of
encouraging the zeal of a young naturalist distinguished
by his love of adventure. Though not perhaps a very
proﬁtable excursion, he collected many interesting species,
and has no doubt gratefully responded to the patronage
of his friends.

Species 158. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS THOMPSONI. Bul. testâ subelongato-oblongâ,
imperforatâ, apice obtusâ, anfractibus sex, longitudina-
liter striatis, per suturas plano-crenulatis, columellâ
rectâ vel paululum arcuatâ, labro vix reﬂexo; livido-
cinereâ, epidermide corneâ, nitidâ, olivaceo-viridi
indutâ, apice rufescente, anfractuum margine superiori
crenulato albicante, apertuœ fauce cœrulescente, juxta
peritrema purpureo-nigricante, labris laminâ nigricante-
lividâ callosâ junctis.

THOMPSON'S BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately ob-
long, imperforated, obtuse at the apex, whorls six in
number, longitudinally striated, ﬂatly crenulated along
the sutures, columella straight or a little curved, lip
but slightly reﬂected; livid ash colour, covered with
a shining horny olive-green epidermis, reddish towards
the apex, upper crenulated edge of the whorls whitish,
interior of the aperture bluish, purple-black towards
the peritreme, lips joined by a callous blackish livid
lamina.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 74.

Hab. Andes of Quito.

A very distinct species remarkable for the same shining
horny green epidermis which characterizes the Helix Busbii.
(Conch. Syst. vol. ii. pl. 164. ﬁg. 11.)

Species 159. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SHONGI. Bul. testâ pyramidali-oblongâ, crassâ,
imperforatâ, anfractibus sex, Iœvibus, per suturas sub-
crenulatis, lahro reﬂexo; fuscescente, epidermide corneâ
rufo-castaneâ indutâ, anfractuum margine superiori

albicante, columellâ et aperturœ fauce intensè aurantio-
ruﬁs, peritremate albicante.

SHONG'S BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, thick,
imperforated, whorls six in number, smooth, slightly
crenulated along the sutures, lip reﬂected; light
brown, covered with a horny reddish chesnut
epidermis, upper edge of the whorls whitish, colu-
mella and interior of the aperture deep orange red,
peritreme whitish.

Lesson, Voy. de la Coquille, Moll. p. 321. pl. 7. f. 4, 5.

Hab. New Zealand.

A shell of not uncommon occurrence, always distin-
guished by the deep orange red colouring of the aperture
and rich chesnut epidermis, whilst there is no plait on the
columella.

It was ﬁrst discovered by M. Lesson, during the Voyage
of the Coquille, at the Bay of Islands, New Zealand, and
named after one of the native Chiefs of that district.
Subsequently M. Lesson thought to have recognised his
species in Chemnitz's ﬁgure, Conchyl. Cab. vol. ix. pl. 121.
f. 1039-40, under the title Helix auris-Midœ and in De
Férussac's ﬁgure of the B. auris-bovinus, Hist. Moll. terr.
et ﬂuv. pl. 159. f. 1, 2, but it is perfectly distinct from
these, which (vide Pl. XXX.) are also distinct from each
other, and the honoured name of the New Zealand Chief
remains to posterity.

Species 160. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FULMINANS. Bul. testâ oblongâ, apicem versus
peculiariter acuminatâ, anfractibus quinque, oblique
convolutis, undique longitudinaliter et reticulatè cor-
rugatis, columellâ fortiter uniplicatâ labro latè reﬂexo;
fumeo-fuscâ, subpellucidâ, strigis longitudinalibus acutè
angulatis intensè castaneis conspicuè ornatâ.

THE LIGHTING BULIMUS. Shell oblong, peculiarly
acuminated towards the apex, whorls ﬁve in number,
obliquely convoluted, longitudinally and reticulately
wrinkled throughout, columella strongly one-plaited,
lip widely reﬂected; smoky brown, somewhat trans-
parent, conspicuously ornamented with sharply
angled, dark chesnut longitudinal streaks.

NYST, Bull. de l'Acad. Royale de Bruxelles.

Bulimus bellulus, Jonas.
Bulimus Loeveni, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. Colonia de Tovar, Venezuela; Dyson.

A somewhat rare species rather sharply acuminated
towards the apex, of a peculiar semitransparent smoky
brown colour, marked with sharply zigzag longitudinal
chesnut streaks.