BULIMUS.

PLATE XXII.

Species 137. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONSPERSUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, tenui, semi-
pellucidâ, subumbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque, rotun-
datis, concentricè obsoletè rudè striatis, ad suturas
crenulatis, labro simplici; ﬂavicante-corneâ, lineis
guttulisque opaco-albis profusè conspersâ, peritremate
pallidè rosaceo.

THE BESPRINKLED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, semi-
transparent, slightly umbilicated, whorls ﬁve in num-
ber, rounded, concentrically obsoletely rudely striated,
crenulated at the sutures, lip simple; yellowish horny
colour, profusely sprinkled with opake white lines
and dots, peritreme tinged with pink.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 73.

Hab. Lima (buried in the earth under bushes on the
hills); Cuming.

A beautifully delicate horny species, crowded with
eﬀective opake-white lines and dots, with a pale rose
peritreme to the aperture.

Species 138. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS AQUILUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, ventricosâ, umbili-
catâ, anfractibus quinque, longitudinaliter creberrimè
et subtiliter striatis, interstitiis reticulato-punctatis,
labro simplici; pellucido-castaneo alboque longitudi-
naliter undatâ et variegatâ.

THE SWARTHY BULIMUS. Shell ovate, ventricose, umbi-
licated, whorls ﬁve in number, longitudinally very
closely and ﬁnely striated, the interstices being reti-
culately punctured, lip simple; longitudinally waved
and variegated with transparent chesnut and white,

Hab. Tacna, Peru.

A prettily marked species approaching somewhat in
character to the B. versicolor, but diﬀering materially in
form.

Species 139. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS STRIATUS. Bul. testâ subpyramidali-ovatâ,
tenuiculâ, subampliter umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, un-
diquè concentricè elevato-striatis, columellâ sublatè ex-
pansâ, labro simplici; fuscescente-albâ, lineis strigisve
concentricis castaneis irregulariter notatâ.

THE STRIATED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally
ovate, rather thin, somewhat largely umbilicated,
whorls six in number, concentrically elevately striated
throughout, columella rather widely expanded, lip
simple; brownish white, irregularly marked with
concentric chesnut-brown lines and streaks.

KING, Zool. Journal.

Hab. Lima (upon the hills); Cuming.

Peculiarly barred here and there in the most irregular
manner with dark chesnut brown.

Species 140. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS EROSUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, subampliter umbilicatâ,
spirâ breviusculâ, acuminatâ, anfractibus sex, ventri-
cosis, longitudinaliter subrugoso-striatis; diaphano
fuscescente, strigis maculisque opaco-albis aspersâ, apice
pallidè rosaceo.

THE ERODED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, somewhat largely
umbilicated, spire rather short, acuminated, whorls
six in number, ventricose, longitudinally somewhat
roughly striated; light diaphanous brown, sprinkled
with opake white streaks and spots, apex pale pink.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 106.

Hab. Huantajaya, near Iquiqui, Peru (under stones on the
hills, 2,500 feet above the level of the sea); Cuming.

The detail of character is not much unlike that of B.
conspersus, but it is a shell of larger size and much more
solid growth.

Species 141. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ALBICANS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, umbilicatâ, anfrac-
tibus quinque, ventricosis, subrugoso-striatis, columellâ
subexpansâ, opaco-albicante, hic illic diaphanâ, aper-
turœ fauce fulvescente.

THE WHITE BULIMUS. Shell ovate, umbilicated, whorls
ﬁve in number, ventricose, somewhat roughly striated,
columella rather expanded; opake-white, here and
there diaphanous, interior of the aperture fulvous.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.

Hab. Copiapo, Chili (in the dry sand on elevated ground
near the Port); Cuming.
This species partakes in great measure of the characters

June, 1848.