BULIMUS.—PLATE XXII.

of B. conspersus and erosus, but is, I believe, suﬃciently
distinct.

Species 142. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS APODEMETES. Bul. testâ ovatâ, tenui, inﬂatâ,
vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque, subrugoso-striatis,
ultimo valdè maximo, aperturâ subamplâ, labro tenui;
albidâ.

THE EXILE BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, inﬂated, scarcely
umbilicated, whorls ﬁve in number, rather roughly
striated, last whorl very much the largest, aperture
somewhat large, lip thin; whitish.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 279.

Hab. Bolivia, &c.; D'Orbigny.

I must refer the reader for a better illustration of this
species to the above-mentioned magniﬁcent work by M.
D'Orbigny, the present uncoloured specimen giving no
other idea of it than that of form. In reference to colour
M. D'Orbigny says, “the tints are extremely variable
according to the localities; at Parana the shell is pale-
yellow or dotted, often marked with transverse lines of
marbled white and clear brown, with indications of distant
clear brown longitudinal lines; at Chiquitos, on the other
hand, it is distinguished by longitudinal brown bands
only, which are then more conspicuous.”

Species 143. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS STRIATULUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-ovatâ, tenui,
diaphanâ, conspicuè umbilicatâ, anfractibus rotundatis,
pulcherrimè creberrimè concentricè elevato-striatis,
columellâ reﬂexâ, labro simplici; pallidè corneâ, trans-
lucidâ, striis opaco-albis, fasciis plurimis albidis inter-
ruptis cingulatâ.

THE FINELY STRIATED BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally
ovate, thin, diaphanous, conspicuously umbilicated,
whorls rounded, very beautifully closely concentrically
elevately striated, columella reﬂected, lip simple;
pale horny colour, transparent, the striæ opake-
white, encircled with numerous interrupted whitish
bands.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 73.

Bulimus D'Orbignii, Pfeiﬀer,

Hab. Lima (under stones on the hills); Cuming.

A beautiful species, distinguished by the delicate aspect
of its ﬁne opake-white striæ upon a transparent horny
ground.

Fig. a is a representation of the specimen upon which
Mr. Sowerby founded the species, and Fig. b is the shell
described by Dr. Pfeiﬀer under the name B. D'Orbignii.

Species 144. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GUTTATUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-oblongâ, sub-
fusiformi, umbilicatâ, apice papillari, anfractibus sex,
longitudinaliter rugoso-striatis, ad suturas crenulatis;
fulvo-fuscescente, guttis apaco-albis longitudinaliter
notatâ, apice rosaceo-fuscâ.

THE MOTTLED BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally-oblong,
somewhat fusiform, umbilicated, apex papillary,
whorls six in number, longitudinally rugosely striated,
crenulated at the sutures; pale fulvous-brown, longi-
tudinally marked with opake-white speckles; apex
pinkish-brown.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 31.

Hab. Cobija; Cuming.

This species like others of the plate is characterized by
a sprinkling of opake-white spots, and it is distinguished
by its papillary apex.