BULIMUS.

PLATE XXIV.

Species 155. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS COLORATUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, ventricosissimâ,
vix umbilicatâ, spirâ brevi, anfractibus quinque, tumido-
convexis, pulcherrimè minutè promiscuè granulatis, ad
suturas subtilissimè crenulatis, columellâ plicâ unicâ
ascendente, aperturâ subamplâ, labris laminâ callosâ
junctis, peritremate conspicuè reﬂexo; albidâ, ﬂammis
luteis longitudinalibus, maculis strigisve nigricantibus
umbratis, epidermide olivaceâ indutâ, apicem versus
castaneâ, columellâ labroque roseis.

THE COLORED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, very ventricose,
scarcely umbilicated, spire short, whorls ﬁve in num-
ber, tumidly convex, very beautifully minutely pro-
miscuously granulated, very ﬁnely crenulated at the
sutures, columella with a single ascending fold, aper-
ture rather large, outer and columellar lips connected
by a callous lamina on the body whorl, peritreme
conspicuously reﬂected; whitish, with longitudinal
yellow ﬂames shaded with blackish spots or streaks,
covered by an olive epidermis, chesnut-coloured
towards the apex, lip and columella deep rose.

NYST, Bull. de l'Acad. Royale de Bruxelles, vol. xii. lére
partie, pl. 1. f. 2 a, b.

Hab. Province of Cumana, Colombia; Funck.

A truly interesting species collected by M. Funck, the
South American traveller, in the interior of Colombia,
and ﬁrst described by M. Nyst in the Transactions of the
Royal Academy of Brussels, from a specimen of much
younger and more pellucid growth than those before me.
The most characteristic features of the species are its
beautifully granulated surface and richly shadowed undu-
lated painting, whilst the lip is of a deep rose colour, and
the interior lined with a delicate pinkish bloom, through
which the outer pattern is discernible.

Species 156. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LAMARCKIANUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, ventricosis-
simâ, vix umbilicatâ, spirâ brevi, anfractibus quinque,
subplano-convexis, minutè promiscuè obtuso-granulatis,
ad suturas subtilissimè crenulatis, columellâ plicâ unicâ
ascendente, aperturâ subamplâ, peritremate conspicuè
reﬂexo; pallidè livido-fuscescente, punctis grandibus
castaneis hic illic piperatâ, epidermide olivaceâ indutâ,
peritremate livido-fusco.

LAMARCK'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, very ventricose,
scarcely umbilicated, spire short, whorls ﬁve in num-
ber, rather ﬂatly convex, minutely promiscuously
obtusely granulated, very ﬁnely crenulated at the
sutures, columella with a single ascending fold, aper-
ture rather large, peritreme conspicuously reﬂected;
pale livid brown, peppered here and there with large
chesnut dots, covered with an olive-brown epidermis,
peritreme livid brown.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul.

Hab. Andes of New Granada (at an elevation of about
8,000 feet); Funck.

So closely does this species approximate to the pre-
ceding, that I feel somewhat doubtful of the propriety of
retaining it; they appear to diﬀer, so far as may be judged
by a comparison of the specimens here ﬁgured, but it is
easy to conceive that a larger series would reveal a much
closer aﬃnity between them.

Species 157. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS PARDALIS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovali, subventricosâ,
crassiusculâ, anfractibus quinque, subobliquè convolutis,
apicem versus minutissimè creberrimè obtuso-granulatis,
per suturas undique longitudinaliter crenulatis, colu-
mellâ contortâ, fortiter uniplicatâ, labro conspicuè re-
ﬂexo; purpurascente-fuscâ, longitudinaliter albiﬂam-
matâ, epidermide lutescente-olivaceâ indutâ, columellâ
et peritremate albis.

THE PANTHER BULIMUS. Shell oblong-oval, rather ven-
tricose, somewhat thick, whorls ﬁve in number, rather
obliquely convoluted, very minutely and closely ob-
tusely granulated towards the apex, longitudinally
crenulated throughout along the sutures, columella
twisted, with a strong winding plait, lip conspicu-
ously reﬂected; purplish-brown, longitudinally ﬂamed
with white, and covered by a yellowish olive epi-
dermis.

DE FERUSSAC, Hist. Moll. terr. et ﬂuv. pl. 112. f. 7. 8.

Bulimus Venezuelensis, Nyst.
Bulimus atrapoides, Jonas.

Hab. Cumana, Venezuela; Funck. Varinas, Venezuela;
Dyson.

It is somewhat diﬃcult to recognise this species by the
ﬁgure of M. De Férussac, it being only known to the illus-
trious author of the ‘Histoire des Coquilles Terrestres’

June, 1848.