BULIMUS.

PLATE XXV.

Species 161. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BLAINVILLEANUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, spirâ bre-
vissimâ, anfractibus quinque, inﬂatis, subobliquè convo-
lutis, undique pulcherrimè longitudinaliter et reticulatè
corrugatis, columellâ fortiter uniplicatâ, labro latè
reﬂexo; fumeo-fuscâ, strigis castaneis acutè angulatis
longitudinaliter pictâ, epidermide subtilissimè corrugatâ
viridi luteo-punticulatâ indutâ.

DE BLAINVILLE'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, spire very
short, whorls ﬁve in number, inﬂated, somewhat ob-
liquely convoluted, very beautifully longitudinally
and reticulately wrinkled throughout, columella
strongly one-plaited, lip widely reﬂected; smoky-
brown, longitudinally painted with sharply zigzag
chesnut streaks, covered with a very ﬁnely wrinkled
epidermis, of a green colour sometimes dotted with
yellow.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul.

Hab. Zaji, Province of Merida, New Granada; Funck,
Linden.

This very beautiful species has precisely the sculpture,
colour, and marking of the B. fulminans, overlaid by a
remarkable epidermis of a dark green colour, sometimes
minutely yellow-dotted, deposited in ﬁne wrinkles resem-
bling those which may frequently be observed on oil-
painting that has been exposed to the heat of the sun.
It diﬀers in form, being shorter and of a more inﬂated
growth, but is a curious approximation to it in other
respects.

Species 162. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MORITZIANUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, ventri-
cosâ, anfractibus sex, convexis, lœvibus, ad suturas
exiliter crenulatis, columellâ fortiter uniplicatâ, labro
reﬂexo; fuscâ, Iutescente-albo sœpè longitudinaliter
undato-strigatâ, epidermide olivaceo-viridi, nunc lœvi-
gatâ, nunc corrugatâ, indutâ, columellâ labroque inter-
dum vividè rufo-aurantiâ, interdum fumeo-fuscâ.

MORITZ'S BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, ventricose,
whorls six in number, convex, smooth, faintly cre-
nulated at the sutures, columella strongly one-
plaited, lip reﬂected; brown, often longitudinally
streaked with yellowish white in zigzag pattern,

covered with an olive green epidermis, sometimes
smooth, sometimes wrinkled, lip and columella bright
reddish-orange or smoky brown.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul.

Hab. Chachopo, Province of Merida, New Granada (in
the woods); Funck, Linden.

A ﬁne new species of which Mr. Cuming possesses
several examples varying in colour and painting between
those selected for illustration. The rich dark green epi-
dermis and deep orange lip and columella present an
eﬀective contrast.

Species 163. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CALEDONICUS. Bul. testâ subfusiformi-oblongâ,
crassissimâ, anfractibus sex, subdepressis, lœvibus, colu-
mellâ valdè incrassatâ, medio depressâ, deinde productâ
et tumidâ, parte superiori tuberculo calloso munitâ,
aperturâ auriculatâ, contractâ, labro incrassato, non
reﬂexo, supernè late sinuato; fuscescente-albâ, epider-
mide castaneâ nitidâ indutâ, columellâ labroque albidis,
aperturœ fauce intensè sanguineo-rufâ.

THE NEW CALEDONIA BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusi-
formly oblong, very thick, whorls six in number,
rather depressed, smooth, columella very much
thickened, depressed in the middle, then produced
and swollen, upper part furnished with a callous tu-
bercle, aperture auriculated, contracted, lip thickened,
not reﬂected, broadly sinuated above; brownish-
white, covered with a shining chesnut epidermis, lip
and columella whitish, interior deep blood red.

PETIT, Magasin de Zoologie.

Hab. New Caledonia.

A remarkable species, chieﬂy distinguished by the
curious auriculated structure of the aperture; there is no
plait on the columella, but a prominent callous wart or
tubercle. The lip is not reﬂected but pressed over the
aperture, and towards the upper part is characterized by a
deep sinus. Were this singularity of growth not proved
to be constant in the species, it might have been regarded
as an unnatural distortion. We are indebted to M. Petit,
a zealous conchologist of Paris, for having described this
species, and I have to thank him for sending me a speci-
men which accords in all respects with those in Mr.
Cuming's collection.

June, 1848.