BULIMUS.

PLATE XXVI.

Species 165. (Mus. White.)

BULIMUS ADAMSONI. Bul. testâ subfusiformi-ovatâ, ventri-
cosâ, spirâ acuminatâ, pyramidali, anfractibus sex ad
septem, Iœvibus vel obliquè tenuistriatis; columellâ sub-
rectâ, aperturâ paululum eﬀusâ, labro vix reﬂexo;
violaceo-cinereâ, basin versus subolivaceâ, fusco hic
illic sparsim nebulatâ, vittâ conspicuâ cœrulescente-
albâ, olivaceo-nigricante subremotè articulatâ cingulatâ;
vittâ alterâ pallidâ obscurâ supra, columellâ purpureo-
nigricante, peritremate violaceo, intus cœrulescente-albo.

ADAMSON'S BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiformly ovate,
ventricose, spire acuminated, pyramidal, whorls six
to seven in number, smooth or obliquely ﬁnely stri-
ated; columella nearly straight, aperture a little
eﬀused, lip scarcely reﬂected; violet ash colour, olive-
tinted towards the base, sparingly clouded here and
there with brown; encircled by a conspicuous blue-
white ﬁllet, rather remotely articulated with olive-
black, there being another pale obscure ﬁllet above,
columella purple-black, peritreme violet, bluish white
within.

Hab. Base of the Purremo, near the volcano of Tolyma,
on the eastern slope of the Andes.

This magniﬁcent species was purchased many years
since, with the above locality, by John Adamson, Esq., of
Newcastle-on-Tyne, and no other specimen has since been
heard of. The collection of that gentleman having been
recently dispersed, it has fallen into the possession of
another eminent amateur conchologist, Henry Hopley
White, Esq., through whose kindness and liberality I am
enabled to publish it after a long period of obscurity.

It is of an elegant pyramidally fusiform growth, rather
ventricose and a little eﬀused towards the base, of a rich
olivaceous violet colour, distinguished by a conspicuous
white belt remotely articulated with purple-black, and the
peritreme of the aperture is of a rich violet.

Species 166. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS DENNISONI. Bul. testâ acuminuto-ovatâ, ven-
tricosâ, anfractibus quinque ad sex, supernè subconcavo-
depressâ, superﬁcie striis rugosis undique subtilissimè

decussatâ, anfractu ultimo peramplo, inﬂato, columellâ
subrectâ, aperturâ oblongâ, labro vix reﬂexo; supra
cœruleo-albicante, nigricante-viridi variegatâ et punc-
tatâ, infra luteo-olivaceâ, punctis strigisque brevibus
undatis nigricante-viridibus, luteo in uno latere illumi-
natis, pulcherrimè pictâ, zonis albidis cingulatâ, quarum
inferiori subobscurâ, peritremate fusco, intus cœruleo-
albicante.

DENNISON'S BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate, ventri-
cose, whorls ﬁve to six in number, slightly concavely
depressed round the upper part, the entire surface
being very ﬁnely decussated with rough striæ, re-
ticulated, last whorl very large, inﬂated; columella
nearly straight, aperture oblong, lip scarcely reﬂected;
bluish white above, variegated and dotted with
blackish green, beneath yellowish olive, very beau-
tifully painted with dots and short-waved streaks of
blackish green, illuminated along one side with
yellow, and encircled by two whitish zones of which
the lower is somewhat obscure, peritreme brown, in-
terior bluish white.

Hab.―?

Another ﬁne species, from probably the same fertile
region, of which, I believe, only two specimens are known;
one, here ﬁgured, in the collection of J. Dennison, Esq.;
the other, very much worn and discoloured, in the British
Museum. It approximates closely to the preceding species
in general appearance, but diﬀers materially in its details.
In the B. Adamsoni the whorls form a nearly straight
pyramidal cone, in the B. Dennisoni they are more ventri-
cose and less pyramidally disposed, whilst the last is
proportionally larger, more oblong, and more inﬂated.
The texture of the two shells is dissimilar; the former is
smooth or obliquely striated and appears to have a thin
horny stratum of semi-transparent epidermis, the latter is
ﬁnely decussated with rough uneven striæ in a manner
which is rarely if ever observed beneath a horny epidermis.
The diﬀerence of colouring is best described in the accom-
panying drawings; they are two elegantly painted shells
and, as species quite unapproached by any hitherto de-
scribed, constitute a most interesting and valuable addition
to the genus.

July, 1848.