BULIMUS.

PLATE XXVIII.

Species 160. (Fig. 160 b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FULMINANS. The shell here represented is
that in Mr. Cuming's collection, described by Dr. Pfeiﬀer
under the name of B. Loveni, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1847, p. 229.
It is without doubt identical with the B. fulminans de-
scribed at Pl. XXIV., though lighter in structure and of
less acuminated growth.

Species 169. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MILLERI. Bul. testâ, ovato-oblongâ, spirâ sub-
obtusâ, anfractibus quinque, tumidiusculis, obliquè con-
volutis, aperturâ subcontractâ, labro reﬂexo; castaneo-
fuscâ, epidermide sericeâ, transversim minutè granuloso-
crispatâ, indutâ, peritremate roseo.

MILLER'S BULIMUS. Shell ovately oblong, spire rather
obtuse, whorls ﬁve in number, rather swollen, ob-
liquely convoluted, aperture somewhat contracted,
lip reﬂected; chesnut-brown, covered with a silken
epidermis, which is transversely minutely granulously
crisped, peritreme rose-coloured.

SOWERBY, Conch. Illus. f. 94.

Hab. Brazil.

This beautiful species is mainly distinguished by its
exquisite silken epidermis, which exhibits two or three
bands towards the base, not of colour, but of light and
shade, as in a shot-silk.

Species 170. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS AURIS-MIDÆ. Bul. testâ oblongo- vel elongato-
ovatâ, subcompressâ, anfractibus sex, lœvibus aut irre-
gulariter rugoso-striatis, ultimo valdè majore, columellâ
callosâ plicœformi, interdum duabus, munitâ, aperturâ
amplâ; fulvescente-albâ, epidermide olivaceo-castaneâ
indutâ, aperturœ fauce rufescente-croceâ, peritremate
lacteâ.

THE MIDA'S EAR BULIMUS. Shell oblong or elongately
ovate, a little compressed, whorls six in number,
smooth or irregularly roughly striated, last whorl
very much the larger, columella furnished with a
plait-like callosity, sometimes two, aperture large;
fulvous white, covered with an olive chesnut epider-
mis, interior of the aperture reddish chesnut, peri-
treme cream colour.

Auris-Midœ terrœ australis, Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vol. ix.
p. 42. pl. 121. f. 1039, 1040.

Bulimus ﬁbratus, Gray.
Hab. New Caledonia.

We are informed by Chemnitz in the ninth volume of
the Conchylien Cabinet, published in 1786, that this shell
was known to Favanne as “a very rare Buccinum from
New Holland bearing some resemblance to the false
Midas' Ear,” meaning the Auricula Midœ, which Bru-
guière referred to his genus Bulimus under the same
speciﬁc title as that used by Chemnitz in reference to this.
We also learn from the same source that it was known to
English collectors upwards of half a century ago, as
‘The Midas' Ear from New Caledonia.’ Lamarck,
however, and his followers appear to have confounded
it with the B. auris-bovina, from which, as described at
Pl. XXX., it is amply distinguished.

The chief variation in the growth of the present species
consists in some specimens being of an elongated form as
represented in Chemnitz, and of which a specimen exactly
agreeing with that ﬁgure is before me, and in others being
of a compressed oblong tumid growth, as in the shell re-
presented in the accompanying plate. Both varieties are
distinguished by a plait-like callosity on the columella and
the rich orange-red painting of the interior, but are equally
distinct from the B. Shongi or auris-bovina.

Species 171. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FUNCKII. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ, subcylin-
draceâ, crassiusculâ, anfractibus quinque ad sex, longi-
tudinaliter irregulariter rudè striatis, lœvibus, apicem
versus subtilissimè corrugato-reticulatis, columellâ sub-
arcuatâ, labro fortiter reﬂexo; rufo-castaneâ, epider-
mide olivaceâ crassâ indutâ, aperturâ livido-fuscâ,
peritremate fumeo-aurantio.

FUNCK'S BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, somewhat
cylindrical, rather thick, whorls ﬁve to six in number,
longitudinally irregularly rudely striated, smooth,
very ﬁnely corrugately reticulated towards the apex;
columella slightly arched, lip strongly reﬂected;
reddish chesnut, covered with a thick olive epidermis,
interior of the aperture livid brown, peritreme smoky
orange.

NYST, Mém. Société Royale de Liège, vol. i.

July, 1848.