BULIMUS.—PLATE XXIX.

There are apparently two well-marked varieties of this
species, one of a deep burnt red colour, dark chesnut-
black round the lower part, with a rose lip as in the richly
coloured specimen here ﬁgured from the collection of
Mr. Dennison; the other of a purplish colour, merely
brownish towards the lower part and having the lip tinged
with scarlet, as in Mr. Cuming's specimen.

Several ﬁne examples of B. Downesii were collected by
Mr. Fraser at the above-mentioned island, during his
adventure in the unfortunate Niger Expedition.

Species 178. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS AURIPIGMENTUM. Bul. testâ pyramidali-elon-
gatâ, spirâ acuminatâ, anfractibus septem, lœvibus,
plano-convexis; columellâ angustâ, rectâ, quasi revo-
lutâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro simplici, acuto; pe-
culiariter rufescente-spadiceâ, anfractibus ﬂammis bre-
vibus irregularibus erectis, castaneis et albis, basi cingu-
latis, anfractu ultimo fasciâ castaneâ latâ.

THE ORPIMENT BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally elongated,
spire acuminated, whorls seven in number, smooth,
ﬂatly convex, columella narrow, straight, as if rolled
back, aperture rather small, lip simple, sharp; of a
peculiar reddish bay, the whorls being encircled round
the base with irregular short erect chesnut and white
ﬂames, last whorl with a broad chesnut band.

Hab.―?

A very handsome characteristic new species totally dis-
tinct from any hitherto known, for which I am indebted
to the liberality of J. Dennison, Esq., who possesses two
examples agreeing with each other in the minutest detail.

Species 179. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FAVANNII. Bul. testâ ovatâ ventricosâ, umbili-
catâ, spirâ breviusculâ, acuminatâ, suturis impresssis;
anfractibus septem, concentricè striatis, Iœvibus, colu-
mellâ latâ, aperturâ subcontractâ, labro vix reﬂexo;
albâ, maculis grandibus quadratis, rufescente-fuscis
supernè et infernè nebulatâ.

FAVANNE'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, ventricose, umbili-
cated, spire rather short, acuminated, sutures im-
pressed; whorls seven in number, concentrically
striated, smooth, columella broad, aperture a little
contracted, lip scarely reﬂected; white, clouded above
and below with large square reddish brown spots.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 227.

Helix Favannii, Férussac.

Bulimus cinctus, Jay.

Hab. Eastern Islands.

Easily distinguished by its style of painting, the colour
being arranged round the upper and lower parts of the
whorls in large oblong-square blotches, generally ﬂowing
irregularly one into the other.