BULIMUS.—PLATE XXVIII.

Bulimus superbus, Jonas.
Bulimus Caripensis, Valenciennes.

Hab. Caripi, Venezuela (in the crevices of high moun-
tains); Funck, Dyson.

First discovered by M. Funck, and subsequently by
Mr. Dyson, who found the species in great abundance at
Caripi, Venezuela, where the natives were observed to
collect and roast the animals for food. It is a rather solid
shell of a cylindrically oblong form, and of a peculiar smoky
tint of colour.

At the time M. Nyst was engaged in describing this
species, it happened that Mr. Cuming, whilst passing
through Belgium, observed to him that he had some re-
collection of its being already described in the Zoological
Journal, under the name B. labeo. Upon this M. Nyst,
in a subsequent notice of the species, took some consider-
able pains to exhibit the diﬀerence between the B. labeo
and Funckii, reproducing the description and ﬁgure of the
former for comparison, side by side, with the latter.
M. Nyst is no doubt to be complimented for his ability
and zeal in the matter, but in so doing he unconsciously
attaches an importance to a passing conversational remark,
a mere lapsus-linguœ, or rather -memoriœ, which the
speaker never intended. The species are too far removed
from each other to admit of two opinions.

Species 172. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MELANOCHEILUS. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ,
subumbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, longitudinaliter rudè
striatis, per marginem superiorem crenatis, apicem
versus subtilissimè corrugatis; columellâ subcontortâ,
aperturâ parviusculâ, labro reﬂexo; castaneo-brunneâ,
medio et infra suturas indistinctè fasciatâ, epidermide
luteo-olivaceâ indutâ, aperturœ fauce et peritremate
livido-nigricantibus.

THE BLACK-LIP BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong,
slightly umbilicated, whorls six in number, longitu-
dinally rudely striated, crenated along the upper
margin, very ﬁnely corrugated; columella a little
twisted, aperture rather small, lip reﬂected; chesnut
brown, indistinctly banded round the middle and
beneath the sutures, covered with a yellowish olive
epidermis, interior and peritreme of the aperture
livid-black.

NYST, Bul. Acad. Royale de Bruxelles, vol. xii.—Extrait,
p. 8. pl. 3. f. 3 a, b.

Hab. Paraguay.

Chieﬂy remarkable for the peculiar livid black-lead hue
of the enamel, which lines the interior and peritreme of
the aperture.

Species 173. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS RHODOCHEILUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, spirâ
breviusculâ, anfractibus quinque, tumidiusculis, undique
minutissimè granulatis; columellâ subcontortâ, aper-
turâ supernè contractâ, labro expanso; castaneâ, strigis
albis longitudinalibus, peculiariter undatis et reticu-
latis, notatâ, epidermide corneâ lutescente indutâ, peri-
tremate roseo.

THE ROSE-LIP BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate, spire rather
short, whorls ﬁve in number, somewhat swollen, very
minutely granulated throughout; columella slightly
twisted, aperture contracted round the upper part,
lip expanded; chesnut brown, marked with longitu-
dinal white streaks which are peculiarly waved and
reticulated, covered with a yellowish horny epidermis,
peritreme rose-coloured.

Hab. Brazil.

The light waved marks which distinguish this species
have a singular net-work-like appearance, and the peri-
treme of the aperture is a particularly deep crimson rose.