BULIMUS.

PLATE XXVII.

Species 167. (Fig. 167 a, Mus. Dennison. Fig. 167 b,
Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS POWISIANUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-oblongâ,
crassâ, apice obtusâ, anfractibus Iœvibus, nitidis, vix
striatis; columellâ subarcuatâ, aperturâ parviusculâ,
paululum eﬀusâ, labro incrassato, vix reﬂexo; fulves-
cente-spadiceâ, strigis irregularibus obliquis, nigricante-
viridibus, cingulo unico in anfractu ultimo, conspicuè
pictâ, interdum immaculatâ, cingulo tantum, columellâ
labroque intensè purpureo-violaceis, peritremate nigri-
cante, apice rufo-castaneo.

POWIS' BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, thick, ob-
tuse at the apex, whorls smooth, shining, scarcely
striated, columella slightly arched, aperture rather
small, a little eﬀused, lip thickened, but slightly
reﬂected; fulvous bay, conspicuously painted with
irregular, oblique, blackish-green streaks, and a single
belt round the last whorl, sometimes unspotted, with
the belt only, lip, and columella deep purple violet,
peritreme blackish, apex reddish chesnut.

PETIT, Magasin de Zool.

Hab. Valle de Cauca, New Granada

This very beautiful and rare species approximates in a
manner to the B. regina which follows; it is of a less
acuminated form, of extremely solid structure, and, ex-
cepting the lip and columella, the pattern of colouring is
dissimilar. Of the specimens here represented, that from
the collection of Mr. Dennison is distinguished by its rich
painting of irregular black-green stripes upon a fulvous-
bay ground; in Mr. Cuming's specimen the ground colour
is unspotted, but in both examples the last whorl is en-
circled by a characteristic narrow belt of the same dark
colour as the stripes.

Species 168. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS REGINA. Bul. testâ subelongato-oblongâ, sœpè
sinistrali, spirâ pyramidali-acuminatâ, apice obtusâ;
anfractibus septem ad octo, lœvibus vel obliquè tenui-
striatis, columellâ subcontortâ, labro simplici; fulves-
cente-albâ, anfractibus supernè fusco viridique variegatis
et articulatis, infernè rufescentibus aut purpureo-nigri-
cantibus, columellâ et aperturœ fauce interdum albis,
interdum intensè violaceis, nigro marginatis.

THE QUEEN BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately oblong,
often sinistral, spire pyramidally acuminated, obtuse
at the apex; whorls seven to eight in number, smooth
or obliquely ﬁnely striated, columella slightly twisted,
lip simple; fulvous white, whorls variegated and
articulated at the upper part with brown or green,
greenish, or purple-black at the lower, aperture and
columella sometimes white, sometimes deep violet,
edged with black.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 257. pl. 29.
f. 4, 5.

Helix regina, De Férussac.
Achatina perversa, Swainson.
Achatina melanostoma, Swainson.
Eadem? Bulimus phlogerus, D'Orbigny.

Hab. Fig. 168 a. Interior of Peru; Poeppig. Fig. 168 b.
Chopo, Province of Pamplona, New Granada; Funck,
Linden. Fig. 168 c. British Guyana, Brazils. Bo-
livia; D'Orbigny.

It will be seen by the above-mentioned localities that
the Bulimus regina inhabits a wide range of country, and,
by the ﬁgures, that it is found under very diﬀerent aspects,
having in some localities a dextral, in others a sinistral
growth.

I quite agree with M. D'Orbigny in the propriety of
referring this species to the genus under consideration
rather than to Achatina; the columella is never strictly
truncated, and the shell has all the texture, form, and
colouring of a Bulimus.

Figure 90 b. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS ZEBRA. This species is also found under so
many diﬀerent aspects, that I thought it desirable to ﬁgure
a singular variety from the collection of Mr. Dennison, of
which that gentleman possesses several examples exactly
similar, brought by some vessel into Liverpool, but he
is not aware from whence. It is of a remarkably solid
growth, heavy as porcelain, and has no indication of the
green which predominates more or less in most varieties.
The upper part of the whorls is white, the lower encircled
by a broad band of light rust colour, and towards the
aperture the whorl is crossed by numerous concentric dark
streaks.

July, 1848.