BULIMUS.

PLATE XXXI.

Species 187. (Fig. a, Mus. Hudson; Fig. b, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CITRINUS. Bul. testâ subelongato-ovatâ, cras-
siusculâ, aut dextrâ aut sinistrâ, anfractibus sex ad
septem, subrotundatis, lœvibus, nitidis; vividè citrino-
ﬂavâ, interdum rufescente-fusco ﬂammatâ, prope suturas
albâ, vittâ longitudinali castaneo-nigrâ interdum pictâ,
labro et peritremate albis.

THE CITRON BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately ovate,
rather thick, either dextral or sinistral, whorls six to
seven in number, somewhat rounded, smooth, shining;
bright citron yellow, sometimes ﬂamed with reddish
brown, white near the sutures, sometimes painted
with a chesnut-black longitudinal ﬁllet, lip and
peritreme white.

BRUGUIERE, Enc. Méth. dict. no. 27.

Helix perversa (pars?), Linnæus.

Helices dextra, and sinistra, Muller.

Helix aurea, Férussac.

Hab. Moluccas.

This species is so well known by its long-established
name, B. citrinus, that I have hesitated to adopt the
Linnæan title Helix perversa, believing it probable that the
author of the Systema Naturæ, included more than one
reversed species under that appellation.

Species 188. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ATRICALLOSUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, basin
versus subinﬂatâ, spirâ acuminatâ; anfractibus sex ad
septem, subrotundatis, lœvibus, nitidis, labro expanso,
latè reﬂexo; albidâ, viridescente-luteo tinctâ, parte
supra columellam laminâ callosâ intensè purpureo-
nigrâ indutâ, anfractu ultimo vittâ simili longitudinali
pictâ, aperturâ albâ.

THE BLACK-CALLOUS BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate,
somewhat inﬂated towards the base, spire acumi-
nated, whorls six or seven in number, somewhat
rounded, smooth, shining, lip expanded, widely
reﬂected; white, stained with greenish yellow, the
part above the columella covered with a callous
deep purple-black lamina, last whorl painted with a
longitudinal ﬁllet of the same colour, aperture white.

GOULD, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist.

Hab. Tavoy, Burmah.

I fear there is not much diﬀerence between this and the

preceding species, beyond the callous purple-black lamina
which lines the interior of the body-whorl, and is of some-
what doubtful importance.

Species 189. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LINDENI. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ, cras-
siusculâ, apice obtusè depressâ, anfractibus quinque ad
sex, decussatim rudè striatis et subtiliter indentatis,
per marginem exiliter crenulatis; columellâ uniplicatâ,
aperturâ parviusculâ, labro subincrassato, reﬂexo; lac-
teâ, nigro sparsim strigatâ, apicem versus purpurascente,
epidermide olivaceo-viridi indutâ, aperturœ fauce cœ-
rulescente-albâ, labro pallidè crocato.

LINDEN'S BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, rather
thick, apex obtusely depressed, whorls ﬁve to six in
number, decussately rudely striated and ﬁnely in-
dented, faintly crenulated along the margin; colu-
mella one-plaited, aperture rather small, lip somewhat
thickened, reﬂected; cream colour, sparingly streaked
with black, purplish towards the apex, and covered
with an olive-green epidermis, interior of the aperture
bluish white, lip pale saﬀron colour.

Hab. La Baja, Province of Pamplona, New Granada;
Funck, Linden.
Bulimus leptocheilus, Pfeiﬀer.

Notwithstanding the importance which is very properly
attached to the priority of names, there are exceptions, as
in the instance before us, in which a name may require to
be changed. The term leptocheilus, or thin-lipped, denotes a
character which is not found in the adult species; the shells
of all Bulimi are “thin-lipped” in an immature state, and
many remain so at maturity; but in the species under
consideration, the lip is thickened and rather widely re-
ﬂected. I therefore venture to name it anew, in honour
of the indefatigable botanist and shell-collector, to whom
we are indebted for so many beautiful species of Bulimi
from the luxuriant district of New Granada.

Species 190. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PLANIDENS. Bul. testâ oblongo-oviformi, tenui-
culâ, spirâ brevi, acuminatâ, anfractibus quinque, tu-
midis, longitudinaliter creberrimè corrugato-striatis,
striis minutissimis transversis sub lente decussatis, aper-

July, 1848.