BULIMUS.—PLATE XXX.

towards the base, columella straight; purple-black,
covered with an epidermis marked with zigzag
streaks of fawn-white, aperture bluish-white, colu-
mella pinkish-purple, peritreme black.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1848.

Hab. Philippine Islands; Kierulf.

I doubt if ‘The Pretender’ would not have been a more
appropriate name for this shell than ‘The Emperor,’ for
it appears to be simply a variety of B. pythogaster. It
would, however, be unfair to judge of its claim to rank as
a species by a single specimen not in the best condition.
Mr. Cuming informs me that it was collected at the Phi-
lippines by Dr. Kierulf of Copenhagen, and that there is
another exactly similar to it in the collection of M. Janelle
of Paris; and further, that he never collected any B. py-
thogaster with this peculiar zigzag style of marking.

Species 184. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ATOMATUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, Achatinœ-
formi, tenui, anfractibus sex, Iœvibus, inﬂatis, per
marginem leviter crenulatis; columellâ rectâ, reﬂexâ,
labro externo, tenui, simplici; ﬂavescente-brunneâ,
castaneo-rufo minutè undato-lineatâ et punctatâ, intus
cœrulescente-albâ.

THE MINUTELY DOTTED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate,
Achatina-shaped, thin, whorls six in number, smooth,
inﬂated, slightly crenulated along the edge; colu-
mella straight, reﬂected, outer lip thin, simple; yel-
lowish-brown, minutely lineated and dotted in a
waved manner with chesnut-red, interior bluish-
white.

GRAY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1834, p. 64.

Hab. Near Fort Macquarrie, New Holland.

A singularly marked species having somewhat the form
of the large African Achatinœ.

Species 185. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS AURIS-BOVINA. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ,
crassâ, spirâ subacuminatâ, anfractibus sex, rugoso-
striatis; columellâ incrassatâ, callositatibus duabus
munitâ, quarum, inferiori peramplâ, solidâ; aperturâ

parvâ, peculiariter contractâ, labro valdè incrassato;
rufescente-albâ, aperturœ fauce vividè rufâ, columellâ
labroque eburneis.

THE OX-EAR BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, thick,
spire somewhat acuminated, whorls six in number,
roughly striated, columella thickened, furnished with
two callosities, of which the lower is very large and
solid, aperture small, peculiarly contracted, lip very
much thickened; reddish-white, interior of the aper-
ture deep red, lip and columella ivory white.

BRUGUIERE, Enc. Méth. dict. no. 80.

Auricula bovina, Lamarck.

Helix auris-bovina, Férussac.

Hab. Eastern Islands.

The Bulimi Shongi and auris-Midœ have each been
confounded in its turn with the present species, which
is eminently distinguished from them; ﬁrst, in being of a
natural white, which obtains a reddish hue, owing to the
interior being very deeply stained with that colour;
secondly, in the aperture being small and much contracted;
thirdly, in being of more solid growth, and fourthly, in
the lip and columella being like white porcelain or polished
ivory.

Species 186. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DOMBEYANUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, umbilicatâ,
spirâ breviusculâ, mucronatâ, anfractibus sex ad septem,
subrotundatis, concentricè rugatis; columellâ subcon-
tortâ, reﬂexâ, labro latissimè expanso et reﬂexo; albâ,
columellâ et aperturœ fauce intensè lacco-purpureis.

DOMBEY'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, umbilicated, spire
rather short, pointed, whorls six to seven in number,
somewhat rounded, concentrically wrinkled; columella
a little twisted, reﬂected, lip very widely expanded
and reﬂected; white, interior deeply coloured with
purple-lake.

Helix Dombeyana, Férussac, Hist. Moll.

Hab. Mexico.

This beautiful and very rare species is chieﬂy remark-
able on account of the trumpet-like expansion of the
aperture, which is of a deep purple-bronze colour.