BULIMUS.—PLATE XXXI.

turâ oblongo-quadratâ, parviusculâ, contractâ, labro
dente unico planulato instructo; olivaceo-virescente,
aperturâ cærulescente-albâ, peritremate intensè pur-
pureo-roseo.

THE FLAT-TOOTHED BULIMUS. Shell oblong egg-shaped,
rather thin, spire short, acuminated, whorls ﬁve in
number, swollen, longitudinally very closely striated
in a wrinkled manner, and, under the lens, crossed
with very minute transverse striæ, aperture oblong-
square, rather small, contracted, furnished with a
single ﬂattened tooth; light olive-green, aperture
bluish white, peritreme deep purple-rose.

MICHELIN, Magasin de Zool. pl. 25.

Hab. Brazil.

The surface of this species, in ﬁne condition, has a
delicate silken aspect, occasioned by a multitude of ex-
tremely ﬁne transverse striæ, which are scarcely discernible
without the aid of a lens. The epidermis is of a peculiar
plum-green colour, and the lip of an intense purple-rose,
distinguished by an oblong ﬂattened tooth.

Species 191. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUDICUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, spirâ brevi,
acuminatâ, anfractibus quinque tumidiusculis, undique
striato-corrugatis, columellâ uniplicatâ, labro expanso,
latè reﬂexo; olivaceo-rufâ, peritremate nunc albo, nunc
vividè roseo.

THE CHASTE BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, spire short,
acuminated, whorls ﬁve in number, rather swollen,
striately wrinkled throughout, columella one-plaited,
lip expanded, widely reﬂected; olive-red, peritreme
sometimes white, sometimes deep rose.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert., vol. viii. p. 253.

Helix pudica, Linnæus, Syst. Nat. (Gmelin's edit.)
p. 3645.
Partula pudica, De Fèrussac.

Helix pudica, Moricand.

Auris virginea, Chemnitz.

Voluta auris-virginis, Dillwyn.

Bulimus virginius, Bruguière.

Strophocheilus Almeida, Spix.

An eadem var. Bulimus perplexus, Sowerby.

Hab. Brazil.

M. Deshayes has already observed that the shell ﬁgured
by Chemnitz under the name of Auris virginea (Conch.
Cab. vol. ix. pl. 121. f. 1042) has a diﬀerent aspect from
that commonly known to us as the B. pudicus, ﬁgured in
the accompanying plate, and among the shells collected
by Dr. Spix in Brazil. The Auris virginea has more the
form of a Partula, but I ﬁnd no shell to correspond with
it, and take it to be merely another state of the species
under consideration.

(Species 192. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS UNIDENTATUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, spirâ
breviusculâ, anfractibus quatuor ad quinque, tumidis,
subrugosis, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro reﬂexo, dente
unico obtuso instructo; albidâ, roseo tinctâ, columellâ
labroque purpureo-castaneis.

THE ONE-TOOTHED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, spire
rather short, whorls four to ﬁve in number, swollen,
rather rough, aperture somewhat small, lip reﬂected,
furnished with a single blunt tooth; whitish, tinged
with rose, lip and columella purple-chesnut.

Partula unidentata, Sowerby, Tankerville Catalogue, App.
p. vii.

Hab. Brazil.

I am not aware that any example of this species is
known in ﬁne condition with its epidermis. It is of more
solid growth than the B. planidens, and of a less oblong
form, whilst the tooth is short and blunt, not oblong and
ﬂattened. The species diﬀer essentially also in colour.