BULIMUS.

PLATE XXXIV.

Species 204. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS POPELAIRIANUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, ventricosis-
simâ, crassiusculâ, subcompressâ, anfractibus tumidis,
supernè crenulatis, apicem versus concentricè subdis-
tanter liratis et minutissimè granulatis; columellâ
arcuatâ, œtate supernè callosâ, labro incrassato, reﬂexo;
castaneo-brunnescente, epidermide crassâ corneâ brun-
neâ, in strigis longitudinalibus acutè undatis interdum
peculiariter dissolutâ, indutâ; aperturâ lividâ, labro
albo.

POPELAIR'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, extremely ventricose,
rather thick, somewhat compressed, whorls swollen,
crenulated round the upper part, concentrically
somewhat distantly ridged and minutely granulated
towards the apex; columella arched, callous at the
upper part with age, lip thickened, reﬂected; light
chesnut-brown, covered with a thick brown epidermis,
which is sometimes peculiarly dissolved, as it were,
in longitudinal zigzag streaks; aperture livid, lip
white.

NYST, Bull. Acad. Roy. de Bruxelles, vol. xii. Extr. p. 10.
pl. 4. f. 5.

Eadem. Bulimus fulguratus, Valenciennes.

Bulimus Valenciennesii, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. Brazil.

This ﬁne zigzag-marked species, distinguished under
the above names by Pfeiﬀer and Valenciennes, is, without
doubt, the same described by M. Nyst in the Transactions
of the Royal Academy of Brussels in honour of the Baron
de Popelair. Mr. Cuming possesses a specimen, like
M. Nyst's, quite destitute of the zigzag marking, which is
not a distribution of colour, nor the result of a double-
membrane arrangement of the epidermis, as in the Phi-
lippine species; it has rather the appearance of being
partially dissolved, as though it were occasioned by the
percolation of some solvent out of the sutures, though in-
capable of such an explanation.

Species 205. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS EGREGIUS. Bul. elongato-oblongâ, subfusiformi,
umbilicatâ, anfractibus convexiusculis, supernè concavis,
undique creberrimè plano-granulatis, granulis in serie-
bus transversis ad intervalla subdistantia, majoribus,
anfractu ultimo basi angulato-compresso; aperturâ
oblongo-ovali, basi angulatâ et canaliculatâ, labro sub-
expanso et reﬂexo, marginibus lirâ angustâ callosâ junc-
tis; castaneo-fuscâ, luteo ﬂammatâ, labro intense roseo.

THE CHOSEN BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, some-
what fusiform, umbilicated, whorls rather convex,
concave round the upper part, very closely ﬂatly
granulated throughout, granules in transverse rows, at
rather distant intervals, larger, last whorl angularly
compressed at the base; aperture oblong-oval, an-
gulated and channelled at the base, lip slightly
expanded and reﬂected, margins joined by a narrow
callous ridge; chesnut-brown, ﬂamed with yellow,
lip deep rose.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 67.

Bulimus hybridus, Gould (ﬁde Pfeiﬀer).

Hab. Brazil, in the vicinity of Rio Janeiro; Gould.

I much doubt whether this is anything more than a
variety of the B. goniostoma. I have not met with it in a
state intermediate between the specimens here represented,
but it is certain that the sculpture of B. egregius is precisely
that of B. goniostoma in an exaggerated and more luxu-
riant condition, whilst the species are alike in form.

Species 206. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GONIOSTOMA. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ, fusi-
formi, umbilicatâ, spirâ acuminatâ, anfractibus convex-
iusculis, supernè concavis, undique minutissimè et cre-
berrimè granulatis, granulis, in seriebus transversis
ad intervalla subdistantia, paulo majoribus, anfractu
ultimo basi compresso; aperturâ oblongo-ovali, basi
canaliculatâ, labro subexpanso et reﬂexo, marginibus lirâ
callosâ junctis; badiâ, labro intensè roseo.

THE ANGLED-MOUTH BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong,
fusiform, umbilicated, spire acuminated, whorls slightly
convex, concave round the upper part, very minutely
and closely granulated throughout, the granules in
transverse rows at rather distant intervals a little
larger, last whorl compressed at the base; aperture
oblong oval, channelled at the base, lip somewhat
expanded and reﬂected, margins joined by a callous
ridge; brown, lip deep rose.

Cochlogena goniostoma, Férussac, Prodrome, No. 441.

Pupa goniostoma, Gray.
Goniostoma erubescens, Swainson.

Hab. Brazil.

Quite an isolated form of the genus, few species pre-
senting much approximation to this in respect of its
angular oblong channelled aperture, besides the preceding
and one or two of smaller size, to be described hereafter,
from the Province of Merida, New Granada.

August, 1848.