BULIMUS.—PLATE XXXII.

number, longitudinally rudely striated, encircled near
the sutures with rows of rude oblong granules, last
whorl very large, inﬂated, lip but slightly reﬂected,
smoky chesnut-brown within and without.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 68.

Hab. Vegas, on the river Quendeu, New Granada.

It may be observed that this shell is almost equally
ventricose and inﬂated with the preceding species, though
not exactly of the same form. It is, moreover, of lighter
structure, and, instead of being covered with granules, it
has merely a few near the sutures of a rude oblong shape,
set in exact rows more or less distant from each other.

Species 198. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GALLINA-SULTANA. Bul. testâ conico-ovatâ,
tenui, ventricosissimâ, anfractibus sex, transversim
creberrimè striatis, striis rugosis et minutè undulatis,
anfractu ultimo peramplo, inﬂato, labro simplici;
albicante, olivaceo-viridi maculatâ et variegatâ, epider-
mide ﬂavidâ indutâ.

THE SULTAN-FOWL BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate,
thin, extremely ventricose, whorls six in number,
transversely very closely striated, striæ rough and
minutely undulated, last whorl very large, inﬂated,
lip simple; whitish, blotched and variegated with
olive green, and covered with a yellowish epidermis.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. viii.
p. 222.

La poule sultane, Favanne.
Helix gallina-sultana, Chemnitz.
Achatina pavonina, Spix.

Hab. Bolivia; D'Orbigny.

“We met with the B. gallina-sultana,” says M. D'Or-
bigny, “in the hot damp forests, inhabited by the savage
Guarayos, in the centre of the republic of Bolivia. There,
they bury themselves among the roots of trees and only
come forth during the rainy season; they then crawl
upon the trunk and stems to inhale the moisture, and as
soon as the rains begin to cease, they descend and again
bury themselves in the earth, where they remain concealed
until the following season.”

Species 199. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS HETEROTRICHUS. Bul. testâ conico-ovatâ, sub-
globosâ, umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex ad septem, rotun-
datis, striis undique sub lente minutè decussatis, colu-
mellâ latiusculâ, labro exiliter reﬂexo; olivaceo-ﬂavidâ,
epidermide setosâ indutâ, setis subtilibus, in seriebus
spiralibus subdistantibus.

THE DIFFERENTLY-BRISTLED BULIMUS. Shell conically
ovate, somewhat globose, umbilicated, whorls six to
seven in number, rounded, under the lens minutely
decussated throughout with striæ, columella rather
broad, lip delicately reﬂected; olive yellow, covered
with a bristly epidermis, of which the bristles are
ﬁne and arranged in rather distant spiral rows.

MORICAND, Mém de Genève, vol. 2. part. 2. p. 430. pl. 2.
f. 5, 6.

Hab. Brazil,

Well characterized by its delicate bristly epidermis,
deprived of which, the species may be equally recognised
by its peculiar form and minute decussated sculpture,
looking, as it were, like a ﬁne web of punctures.