BULIMUS.—PLATE XXXV.

THE RAVINE‐INHABITING BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate,
whorls somewhat ventricose, longitudinally striated,
and peculiarly very ﬁnely marked besides with short
impressed striæ, minutely granulated and radiately
ridged towards the apex, columella scarcely twisted,
lip reﬂected; livid brown, longitudinally obscurely
banded, covered with a rather thin horny epidermis,
lip white.

D’ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l’Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 302.

Hab. Cochabamba, Bolivia (in deep ravines at the base of
the snowy peaks of the Cordilleras); D’Orbigny.

Intermediate, in a manner, between the B. maximus and
ovatus, of smaller size, and apparently distinct. In the
specimen here ﬁgured from Mr. Cuming’s collection, the
surface is curiously marked by numerous rows of short
longitudinal hollowed striæ; it is also encircled by a couple
of scratched grooves, but these are evidently the result of
accident.

Species 209. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GRANULOSUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, an-
fractibus ventricosis, longitudinaliter rudè striatis, un-
dique minutè granulatis, prope apicem subobscurè
radiatim liratis, columellâ subcontortâ, labro reﬂexo;
luteo-brunnescente, epidermide tenuiculâ indutâ, colu‐
mellâ labroque pallidè roseis, aperturœ fauce cœruleo-
albicante.

THE GRANULOUS BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls
ventricose, longitudinally rudely striated, minutely
granulated throughout, somewhat obscurely radiately
ridged near the apex, columella somewhat twisted,
lip reﬂected; yellowish brown, covered with a thin
epidermis, lip and columella pale rose, interior of the
aperture bluish white.

Helix granulosa, Rang, Descr. coquilles terrestres, p. 49.
pl. 2.

Hab. Brazil.

It is much to be feared whether this is not truly a
variety of the B. ovatus. The typical diﬀerences are as
ollows:—in form the B. granulosus is of a less shortened
umid growth than the B. ovatus, and in sculpture, it is
more prominently granulated throughout, whilst the ra‐
diated ridges about the apex are more obscure; it is,

moreover, of a lighter tint of colour, and varies considerably
in the nature of the epidermis, which in this species is
slight and ﬁbrous, but in the B. ovatus, is thick, horny, and
shining.

Species 210. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS OBLONGUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, vix umbi-
licatâ, nunc subamplâ, tenuiculâ, ventricosâ, nunc par-
viore, crassâ, ponderosâ, anfractibus convexis, plus
minusve costulato-striatis, labro reﬂexo; fulvo-spadiceâ,
columellâ labroque intensè roseis.

THE OBLONG BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, scarcely
umbilicated, sometimes rather large, thin, and ven‐
tricose, sometimes smaller, thick, and ponderous,
whorls convex, more or less sculptured with rib-like
striæ, lip reﬂected; fulvous-bay, lip and columella
deep rose.

Helix oblonga, Muller, Verm. vol. ii. p. 86.

Bulimus hœmastoma, Scopoli, Lamarck.

Hab. Eastern coast of South America.

This well-known species inhabits a wide range of
country, and varies greatly in size and substance according
to the local conditions of climate and vegetation, at one
time large and ventricose like the specimen selected for
illustration, at another smaller, thick, and ponderous, with
the lip not unfrequently thickened to an extent truly
remarkable.

M. D’Orbigny has some curious remarks on the habits
and age of this species. “The Bulimus oblongus,” says
this intelligent traveller and naturalist, “buries itself
deeply in the earth during the dry season, and comes forth
at the time of the rains. Towards the close of the rainy
season, it deposits its cretaceous eggs in the earth, and
the young escape from them during the ﬁrst rains which
follow.” The author then goes on to describe that about
two or three years is occupied in the formation of the
shell, when, having arrived at the age of maturity, the lip
is reﬂected, and at a more advanced stage becomes more
or less thickened according to circumstances. After an
examination of what he considers to be annual marks of
increase of growth, Mr. D’Orbigny arrives at the conclu‐
sion that the Bulimus oblongus lives for a period of about
ten years.