BULIMUS.

PLATE XXXV.

Species 207. (Mus. (?) olim Soc. Zool. Lond.)

The accompanying ﬁgure, copied from the Zoological
Journal, Tab. Supp. xxxi, represents a very remarkable
species of Bulimus, deposited some years since in the
Zoological Society's Museum. The shell, however, disap-
peared shortly afterwards from the collection, together
with some other rarities, and the species has never since
been obtained or heard of. It only remains therefore to
copy the description also.

BULIMUS LABEO. Bul. testâ ovato-productâ, fusco-castaneâ,
apicem versus rubrâ, fusco variâ, anfractibus sex, ven-
tricosis, ultimo fasciis duabus nigris, hâc mediâ, illâ
suturali, penultimo fasciis duabus nigris, suturalibus;
columellâ dente obtuso insigni; labro crassissimo, re-
ﬂexo, supra pallidè castaneo, infra nigro; aperturâ
intus albidâ.

THE BLUBBER-LIP BULIMUS. Shell ovately produced,
brown-chesnut, red towards the apex, variegated with
brown, whorls six in number, ventricose, the last
with two black bands, one round the middle, the other
next the suture, penultimate whorl with two bands,
both sutural; columella with a remarkable obtuse
tooth, lip very thick, reﬂected, pale chesnut above,
black beneath, interior of the aperture whitish.

BRODERIP, Zool. Journal, vol. iv. p. 222. pl. supp. xxxi.

Hab. Peru.

To quote Mr. Broderip's more minute description of this
remarkable lost species:— “Shell stout, long oval, of a
brown chesnut colour, changing to red at the apex and on
the upper whorls, which last are longitudinally striped
with reddish brown towards the suture. Whorls six, ven-
tricose; the last has a narrow band across its middle, and
another of the same colour close to the suture, which is
white; the last whorl but one has two narrow black bands,
both near the sutures; the lower bands on the last and
penultimate whorls are each thrice interrupted. On the last
whorl, near the base, which is very dark, is a faint, broad,
lighter coloured band. The columella is remarkable for
its obtuse white tooth, surrounded by the rich dark co-
louring of the aperture. The right lip is of huge thickness,
and much reﬂected: above, it is of a light chesnut colour;
below, of a rich brownish japan-like black, which, par-
ticularly where it is shading oﬀ into the chesnut, gives,
when the light is thrown full on it, the same kind of
iridescent appearance as is seen in the Lumachella, or Fire-
marble. The lower edge of this rich lip is punctured

pretty thickly with dots, resembling those of Cyprœa tes-
tudinaria, which seem ﬁlled with a whitish opake sub-
stance, and the formation of which has given an irregular,
and almost fungus-like appearance to the reﬂected border
of the lip, on its upper side. The interior of the aperture
is white. Length three inches; breadth, measured across
the body whorl, and including the lip, one inch and six-
eighths.

“This ﬁne shell, of a much ﬁrmer fabric than most land-
shells, was obtained by Lieut, Maw, R.N., in a rancho
(farm-house) at Toulea, about nine leagues to the eastward
of Chachapoyas, in Peru, on Christmas day, 1827. It had
been taken on the chacra (farm) to which the rancho be-
longed. The chacra is situated at the highest limit of the
montana, or woody district, on the eastern side of the
Andes, at an elevation of about 8000 feet above the level
of the sea. The species was frequently seen by Lieut. Maw
in the woods between Chachapoyas and Moyabamba. Two
of a much larger size than the individual here described,
were found by him alive, and given in charge to the arriero
(muleteer), with a special injunction to take care of them.
The arriero, supposing that they were to be prepared for
breakfast, roasted them, and thus destroyed the shells.

“Spix has not mentioned this shell, and I have reason to
believe that there is no other specimen in this country.
Whether the species is conﬁned within narrow limits in the
almost untrodden district traversed by Lieut. Maw, will be
an interesting subject for future inquiry. This enterprising
traveller is the ﬁrst European who has performed a journey
across the continent of South America in the line of the
Maranon, or Amazon River. After passing from Truxillo
across the Andes to Chachapoyas he embarked upon the
river in Peru, and proceeded throughout its course to Para.
In the course of this expedition he collected several
animals, which he has liberally presented, together with the
subject of this memoir, to the Zoological Society.”

Species 208. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LACUNOSUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, anfracti-
bus subventricosis, longitudinaliter striatis, striis brevi-
bus impressis peculiariter subtilissimè notatis, apicem
versus minutè granulatis et radiatim liratis, columellâ
vix contortâ, labro reﬂexo; livido-brunneâ, longitudi-
naliter obscurè fasciatâ, epidermide tenuiculâ corneâ
indutâ, labro albo.

August, 1848.