BULIMUS.

PLATE XLIII.

Species 269. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS TRI-BALTEATUS. Bul. testâ subfusiformi-ovatâ,
vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, convexis, lævigatis,
vel minutè longitudinaliter striatis; aperturâ parvius-
culâ, labro subreﬂexo; pallidè stramineâ, zonis tribus
castaneis conspicuè balteatâ, labro vividè rosaceo.

THE THREE-BELTED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusi-
formly ovate, slightly umbilicated, whorls six in
number, convex, smooth, or minutely longitudinally
striated; aperture rather small, lip slightly reﬂected,
pale straw colour, conspicuously belted with three
chesnut zones, lip bright pink.

Hab. Santa Fé di Bogota.

A chaste and delicately coloured species, not hitherto
described, in the collection of J. Dennison Esq.

Species 270. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Dennison;
Fig. c, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS KNORRI. Bul. testâ fusiformi-ovatâ, basi sub-
angulato-productâ, ampliter umbilicatâ, anfractibus
septem, lævibus, sub lente transversim minutè striatis
et indentatis; columellâ latè reﬂexâ, aperturâ oblongo-
ovali, basi attenuatâ, quasi sinuatâ, labro expanso,
vix reﬂexo; stramineâ, aut purpureo-fuscâ, aut cæru-
lescente-fusco obscurè fasciatâ, labro intus aut roseo
aut vividè croceo.

KNORR’S BULIMUS. Shell fusiformly ovate, somewhat
angularly produced at the base, largely umbilicated,
whorls seven in number, smooth, beneath the lens
minutely transversely striated and indented; colu‐
mella broadly reﬂected; straw colour, or purple-
brown, or obscurely banded with bluish-brown, inner
edge of the lip pink or deep saﬀron yellow.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Hel. viv., p. 95.

Hab. La Guayra.

Chieﬂy distinguished by a peculiar attenuation of the
aperture, and by the deep pink or saﬀron colouring of the
lip. The outer colouring of the shell is extremely variable.

Species 271. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS XANTHOSTOMA. Bul. testâ fusiformi-ovatâ,
ampliter umbilicatâ, spirâ subacuminatâ, anfractibus

octo, lævibus, sub lente transversim minutè striatis et
indentatis, columellâ latè reﬂexâ, aperturâ ovatâ, labro
latè expanso, vix reﬂexo; pallidè stramineâ vel auran-
tiâ, apice roseâ, labro vividè croceo.

THE YELLOW-MOUTH BULIMUS. Shell fusiformly ovate,
largely umbilicated, spire somewhat acuminated,
whorls eight in number, smooth, transversely mi‐
nutely striated and indented under the lens, columella
broadly reﬂected, aperture ovate, lip broadly ex‐
panded, scarcely reﬂected; pale straw colour or
orange, pink at the apex and bright saﬀron yellow
at the lip.

D’ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l’Amér. Mérid. p. 312. pl. 40.
f. 1, 2.

Hab. Bolivia and Santa Fé di Bogota.

Mainly distinguished from the preceding species by its
more acuminated growth, comprising a whorl more, and
less oblong form of the aperture.

Species 272. (Mus. Brit.)

BULIMUS BAIRDII. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ, crassâ,
anfractibus septem, plano-convexis, columellâ callosita-
tibus grandibus duabus munitâ, aperturâ parviusculâ,
labro incrassato, reﬂexo; albâ fusco-tinctâ, columellâ
labroque eburneis, aperturæ fauce croceâ.

BAIRD’S BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, thick,
whorls seven in number, ﬂatly convex, columella
furnished with two large callosities, aperture rather
small, lip thickened, reﬂected; white, stained with
brown, lip and columella ivory white, interior of the
aperture saﬀron-yellow.

Hab.—?

This very interesting shell partakes of the characters of
the B. auris-bovina and auris-Midæ, the latter of which,
as may be seen by a comparison of the ﬁgure at Pl. 28,
with one in Martyn’s Universal Conchologist (sub nom.
Helix ﬁbratus), assumes very diﬀerent aspects, but none
with which the present agrees.

I have the pleasure to name this species in honour of
Dr. Baird of the British Museum, as a triﬂing acknow‐
ledgment of his great diligence in sorting the specimens
of the national collection, preparatory to their being criti‐
cally arranged and named.

October, 1848.