BULIMUS.—PLATE XLII.

of which the author informs us he collected a single dead
specimen in a damp forest at the base of the Eastern
Cordilleras of Bolivia, but possesses neither the form nor
marking of that species.

I am indebted to Mr. Linden, the botanical traveller in
New Granada, for the possession of several examples of
this chaste and beautiful shell, characterized by diﬀerent
patterns of epidermis, and have thought it a subject not
unworthy of being dedicated to an eminent collector in
North Britain, the Honourable Mrs. Cathcart, distinguished
by her zeal and aﬀability.

Species 266. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS GLANDIFORMIS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, ventricosâ,
vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quatuor ad quinque, rugoso-
striatis et granulatis, columellâ subtortuosâ, labro sub-
latè reﬂexo; fumeo-albidâ, strigis brevibus fuscis e
suturis fulguratâ, epidermide olivaceâ, luteo-punctatâ
et marmoratâ, indutâ.

THE ACORN-SHAPED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, ventricose,
scarcely umbilicated, whorls four to ﬁve in number,
roughly striated and granulated, columella slightly
twisted, lip rather broadly reﬂected; smoky-white,
marked with short zigzag brown streaks out of the
sutures, covered with an olive epidermis, dotted and
mottled with yellow.

LEA, Extr. Trans. Nat. Hist. Soc. Philadelphia, pl. 23.
f. 92.

Hab. New Granada.

It is not without some doubt that I attribute this shell
to Mr. Lea’s B. glandiformis, whose ﬁgure is very obscure.

Species 267. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS PULICARIUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, tenuiculâ, vix
umbilicatâ, anfractibus quatuor ad quinque, inﬂatis,
subtiliter granulatis, longitudinaliter rugoso-striatis,
transversim obscurè sulcatis; columellâ latè reﬂexâ,

aperturâ subamplâ, labro reﬂexo; albidâ, castaneo
irregulariter punctatâ, labro et interdum fauce aper-
turœ purpurascente-roseis, epidermide olivaceo-fuscâ
aut viridescente indutâ.

THE FLEA-SPOTTED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather thin,
scarcely umbilicated, whorls four to ﬁve in number,
inﬂated, ﬁnely granulated, longitudinally roughly
striated, transversely obscurely grooved; columella
broadly reﬂected; whitish, irregularly dotted with
chesnut, lip and sometimes the interior of the aperture
purple-rose, covered with an olive-brown or greenish
epidermis.

Hab. New Granada.

A delicate species more or less irregularly dotted with
black, and richly coloured with rose-purple about the lip
and aperture.

Species 268. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PLECTOSTYLUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, crassiusculâ,
vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus quatuor ad quinque, rugoso-
striatis et minutè granulatis, columellâ tortuosâ et
fortiter plicatâ, labro incrassato, reﬂexo; fumeo-
castaneâ, punctis perpaucis nigris obscurè notatâ,
epidermide fuscâ indutâ, epidermide secundâ albâ in
strigis brevibus e suturis fulguratâ.

THE TWISTED-COLUMN BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather
thick, scarcely umbilicated, whorls four to ﬁve in
number, roughly striated and minutely granulated,
columella twisted and strongly plaited, lip thickened,
reﬂected; smoky chesnut, obscurely marked with
a few black dots, covered with a brown epidermis,
and a second white epidermis emerging from the
sutures in short zigzag streaks.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1847, p. 230.

Hab. Chacopo, Province of Merida, New Granada; Funck.

From the same locality as the preceding species, re‐
markable for its twisted columella.