BULIMUS.—PLATE XLV.

A very characteristic delicately coloured species, of
roughly plicated growth.

Species 287. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LILIACEUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-ovatâ, tenui,
diaphanâ, anfractibus sex, convexis, Iœvibus, vel sub
lente minutissimè impresso-striatis; columellâ angustè
reﬂexâ, labro tenui, acuto; pallidè crocato-aurantiâ,
roseo basin versus tinctâ.

THE LILY‐COLOURED BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate,
thin, diaphanous, whorls six in number, convex,
smooth, or very minutely impressly striated beneath
the lens; columella narrowly reﬂected, lip thin,
sharp; pale saﬀron-orange, tinged towards the base
with rose.

GUILDING, MSS. ?

Hab. St. Vincents, West Indies?

Mr. Cuming possesses this shell as an inhabitant of
St. Vincents, accompanied with the above name, as having
been given to it by the Rev. Lansdowne Guilding. It is
but right, however, to add that the authenticity of this
name and locality requires conﬁrmation.

Species 288. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TENUISSIMUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, tenui, vix um-
bilicatâ, anfractibus quinque ad sex, obscurè rugoso-
striatis; columellâ subdepresso-reﬂexâ, labro tenui,
acuto; undique sordidè fuscescente.

THE VERY THIN BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, scarcely

umbilicated, whorls ﬁve to six in number, obscurely
roughly striated; columella somewhat depressly re‐
ﬂected, lip thin, sharp; pale dirty brown throughout.

Helix tenuissima, De Férussac, MSS.

Hab. Brazil.

One of the most common species, says M. Moricand,
on the walls, in Brazil.

Species 289. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BENGALENSIS. Bul. testâ conico-ovatâ, tenuiculâ,
umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, lœvibus, basin versus sub-
angulato-productis; columellâ latè reﬂexâ, labro tenui,
acuto; albidâ, lineâ castaneâ suturali, anfractu ultimo
lineis duabus cingulato, columellâ pallidè rosaceâ, apice
nigro.

THE BENGAL BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, rather
thin, umbilicated, whorls six in number, smooth,
slightly angularly produced towards the base; colu‐
mella broadly reﬂected, lip thin, sharp; whitish,
with a sutural chesnut line, last whorl encircled
round the lower part with two chesnut lines, colu‐
mella tinged with pink, apex black.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.), vol. viii.
p. 233.

Hab. Bengal.

Easily recognised by its black apex and characteristic
linear painting, the lower part of the whorls being en‐
circled by two chesnut lines, one of which is concealed in
all but the last by the superposition of one whorl upon
the other.