BULIMUS.—PLATE XLVIII.

Hab. Province of Corrientes, Argentine Republic, Bolivia
(under dead leaves); D’Orbigny.

The chief speciﬁc pecularity of this species resides in
the painting, which does not descend below the sutural line
of the whorls.

Species 314. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FERIATUS. Bul. testâ subfusiformi, vix umbili-
catâ, anfractibus sex, subtiliter rugoso-striatis, suturis
impressis, columellâ reﬂexâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro
expanso; fuscescente, fusco strigatâ et variegatâ,
punctis albis aspersâ.

THE UNEMPLOYED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiform,
scarcely umbilicated, whorls six in number, ﬁnely
roughly striated, sutures impressed, columella re‐
ﬂected, aperture rather small, lip expanded, light
brown, streaked and variegated with bright brown,
sprinkled with white dots.

Hab.—?

Dr. Pfeiﬀer, when in London, attributed this shell to
the B. lophoicus of D’Orbigny, but it fails to agree with
the description and ﬁgure of that species, and appears to
be equally distinct from all others.

Species 315. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS BONTIÆ. Bul. testâ conico-ovatâ, tenui, ventri-
cosâ, subtiliter umbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque, minutè
obliquè striatis, medio tumidis, inﬂatis, columellâ latè
reﬂexâ, labro tenui, expanso, non reﬂexo.

THE BONTIA BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, thin, ven-
tricose, ﬁnely umbilicated, whorls ﬁve in number,
minutely obliquely striated, swollen and inﬂated
round the middle, columella broadly reﬂected, lip
thin, expanded, not reﬂected.

Helix Bontia, Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vol. ix. p. 156.
pl. 134. f. 1216, 1217.

Hab. Southern India; Jerdon.

An extremely rare species, though described upwards of
sixty years since by Chemnitz in his Conchylien Cabinet.
The specimen here represented, for which I am indebted to
the kindness of Mr. Benson, was collected in Southern
India by Mr. Jerdon of Madras.

Species 316. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONFUSUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenuiculâ,

vix umbilicatâ, spirœ suturis impressis, anfractibus sex,
convexis, longitudinaliter creberrimè plicato-striatis, et
hic illic indentatis; fuscescente-albidâ.

THE PUZZLING BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather
thin, scarcely umbilicated, sutures of the spire im‐
pressed, whorls six in number, convex, longitudinally
very closely plicately striated, and here and there
indented; light brownish white.

Hab.—?

This shell resembles M. D’Orbigny’s B. Torallyi in
form, but does not agree with it in the detail of character.

Species 317. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS QUITENSIS. Bul. testâ conico-ovatâ, subampliter
umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, convexis, concentricè
subrugoso-striatis; columellâ labroque vix reﬂexis;
fuscescente castaneo-fusco hic illic strigatâ, umbilico
nigricante, columellâ labroque purpureo-castaneis, ni-
tentibus.

THE QUITO BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, rather
largely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, convex,
concentrically rather roughly striated, lip and colu‐
mella scarcely reﬂected; light-brown, streaked here
and there with chesnut-brown, umbilicus blackish,
lip and columella shining purple chesnut.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1847.

Hab. Quito, Republic of Equador.

The general aspect of this shell is not much unlike that
of an immature Partula faba.

Species 318. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MONILIFER. Bul. testâ subpyramidali-ovatâ,
umbilicatâ, anfractibus convexis, Iœvibus, columellâ
reﬂexâ, aperturâ subquadratâ, labro simplici; opaco-
albâ, fasciis duabus interruptis aurantio-fuscis, valdè
indistinctis, cingulatâ, aperturâ aurantio-tinctâ.

THE NECKLACE‐BOUND BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyra‐
midally ovate, umbilicated, whorls convex, smooth,
columella reﬂected, aperture somewhat square, lip
simple; opake-white, encircled with two very in‐
distinct interrupted orange-brown bands, aperture
tinged with orange.

Hab.—?

Indistinctly encircled by two characteristic interrupted
bands. The aperture is remarkable for the same lateral
compression as in the B. Guadaloupensis.