BULIMUS.—PLATE XLVII.

Mr. Benson informs me that this species was ﬁrst col‑
lected by Capt. Hutton in the warmer vallies of the sub-
Himalayan range, on the left bank of the Sutledge; and
that specimens were transmitted to him from Khyber Pass
by Capt. Barr.

Species 304. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LIVESCENS. Bul. testâ acuminato-ovatâ, sub-
turritâ tenui, anfractibus septem, subrotundatis, Iœvibus,
columellâ, simplici, labro tenui, acuto; livescente-albâ,
interdum zonulis fuscis angustis tribus cingulatâ.

THE BLUISH BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate, rather
turreted, thin, whorls seven in number, somewhat
rounded, smooth, columella simple, lip thin, sharp;
bluish-white, encircled with three narrow light-brown
zones.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul. p. 175.

Hab. Tehuaca, Mexico.

It should be observed that in the banded variety the
two lower bands, which are frequently broader than the
uppermost, are only seen in the last whorl.

Species 305. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FUSCAGULA. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-elongatâ, basi
compressâ, subumbilicatâ, Pupiformi, anfractibus no-
vem, obtusè striatis et peculiariter indentatis, columellâ
bilamellatis, aperturâ parvâ, contractâ, expansâ; sub-
corneâ, opaco-lutescente-albo strigatâ et subtiliter reti‐
culatâ, labro roseo.

THE FUSCOUS-THROAT BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically
elongated, compressed at the base, slightly umbilicated,
Pupa shaped; whorls nine in number, obtusely stri‐
ated and peculiarly indented, columella with two
tooth-like laminæ, aperture small, contracted, ex‐
panded; somewhat horny, streaked and ﬁnely reti‐
culated with opake yellowish white, lip rose.

D’ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l’Amér. Mérid. p. 310. pl. 39.
f. 1, 2.

Hab. Rio Janeiro.

Very closely allied to B. Janeirensis, and from the same
locality; it seems, however, to diﬀer in the columellar la‐
minæ and reticulated arrangement of the opake pattern.

Species 306. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS HELENA. Bul, testâ subobeso-cylindraceâ, tenui,

umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, rotundatis, striis minutis
creberrimè decussatis, suturis impressis, columellâ la-
broque vix reﬂexis; squalidè olivaceâ, semipellucidâ.

THE HELENA BULIMUS. Shell somewhat stoutly cylin‐
drical, thin, umbilicated, whorls six in number,
rounded, very closely decussated with minute striæ,
sutures impressed, lip and columella scarcely re‐
ﬂected; dirty olive, semitransparent.

QUOY and GAIMARD, Voy. dans l'Astrol. vol. 2. p. iii.
pl. 9. f. 82.

Hab. St. Helena.

The minute decussated striæ of this species are scarcely
discernible without the aid of a lens.

Species 307. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONSTRICTUS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-conicâ,
umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, rotundatis, striis trans-
versis et longitudinalibus minutissimè decussatis, suturis
peculiariter impressis; albidâ, semipellucidâ, epider-
mide tenui olivaceâ indutâ.

THE TIED BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally conical, umbili‐
cated, whorls seven in number, rounded, very
minutely decussated with longitudinal and transverse
striæ, sutures peculiarly impressed; whitish, semi-
transparent, covered with a thin olive epidermis.

PFEIFFER, Symbolæ, vol. 1. p. 43.

Bulimus Angosturensis, Gruner.

Hab. Angostura; Gruner.

Mainly characterized by the impressed growth of the
sutures.

Species 308. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DIGITALE. Bul. testâ obeso-ovatâ, umbilicatâ,
spirœ suturis peculiariter profundè impressis, anfracti‐
bus quinque ad sex, subtiliter granuloso-reticulatis,
columellâ reﬂexâ, labro simplici; olivaceo-fuscâ.

THE THIMBLE BULIMUS. Shell stoutly ovate, umbilicated,
sutures of the spire peculiarly deeply impressed,
whorls ﬁve to six in number, ﬁnely granulously re‐
ticulated, columella reﬂected, lip simple; olive-brown.

Hab.—?

The surface of this shell is reticulated in a delicate
wrinkled manner, covered by a silken olive epidermis, and
the sutures are universally deeply impressed.