BULIMUS.—PLATE XLIX.

This shell has been ascribed to the above-recorded
species in Mr. Cuming’s collection, and is so published
here, but, it should be added, with considerable doubt.

Species 324. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS HYEMATUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-ovatâ, anfrac-
tibus septem, peculiariter plicato-corrugatis, aperturâ
parviusculâ, labro simplici; cinerascente-albâ, aperturæ
fauce roseo-purpureâ.

THE FROZEN BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate, whorls
seven in number, peculiarly plicately wrinkled, aper‐
ture rather small, lip simple; pale ash-white, rose-
purple in the interior.

Hab.—?

The surface of this shell is plicately wrinkled in a
manner diﬀerent from any other species. Externally it is
of French-white hue, purplish towards the apex, and the
mouth is tinged with deep purple-rose throughout.

Species 325. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SPORADICUS. Bul. testâ elongato-ovatâ, pyra‐
midali, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus octo, sublævibus,
aperturâ parvâ, labro tenui, acuto; albidâ, nigricante-
fusco variè lineatâ et undatâ.

THE SCATTERED BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, py‐
ramidal, scarcely umbilicated, whorls eight in number,
more or less smooth, aperture small, lip thin, sharp;
whitish, variously lineated and waved with bluish-
brown.

D’ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l’Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 271.
pl. 32. f. 12 to 15.

Hab. Patagonia, Bolivia; D’Orbigny.

M. D’Orbigny describes this species to be widely dis‐
tributed over South America, and very abundant.

Species 326. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TÆNIOLUS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-ovatâ, ad basin
rotundatâ, anfractibus septem, minutè granulatis, ad
suturas crenulatis, columellâ reﬂexâ, labro vix reﬂexo;
fulvo-castaneâ, ad suturas albizonatâ, aperturæ fauce
lividâ, peritremate albido.

THE FILLETED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically ovate,
rounded at the base, whorls seven in number, mi‐
nutely granulated, crenulated at the sutures, columella
reﬂected, lip scarcely reﬂected, fulvous chesnut, zoned
with white at the sutures, interior of the aperture
livid, peritreme white.

NYST, Ext. Acad. Royale de Bruxelles, p. 9. pl. 3. f. 4. a, b.

Hab. South America.

Of a peculiar obtusely rounded growth at the base.