BULIMUS.—PLATE LII.

be observed that the shell grows to a more acuminated
point than in the specimen here represented, which has
the ﬁrst whorls broken oﬀ.

Species 344. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS OBTUSATUS. Bul. testâ elongato-turritâ, basi
subobliquè productâ, umbilicatâ, apice tumidâ, obtusâ,
anfractibus decem ad undecim, plano-convexis, obliquè,
creberrimè costulato-striatis, aperturâ ovali, labro in-
crassato, paululum reﬂexo ; lutescente-albâ, rufo-fusco
hic illic irregulariter tinctâ et strigatâ.

THE BLUNTED BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted,
rather obliquely produced at the base, umbilicated,
swollen and obtuse at the apex, whorls ten to eleven
in number, ﬂatly convex, obliquely very closely sculp‐
tured with rib-like striæ, aperture oval, lip thickened,
a little reﬂected ; yellowish-white, irregularly stained
and streaked here and there with red-brown.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul. p. 151.

Helix obtusata, Gmelin.
Bulimus calcareus, Bruguière, Lamarck, Deshayes.

Hab.Madagascar ; Beck.

This shell, distinguished by Lamarck as having a re‐
ﬂected lip, has been confounded with the Helix calcarea of
Born, an examination of whose ﬁgure will show that it
represents a worn specimen of Sp. 342, deprived of its
epidermis.

Species 345. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CLAVATOR. Bul. testâ elongato-oblongâ, basi
tumidâ et subobliquè productâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfrac-
tibus octo, longitudinaliter rudè elevato-striatis, ad su-
turas crenulatis, columellâ subdepresso-reﬂexâ, labro
simplici, aut paululum reﬂexo, supernè compresso ;
pallidè livido-olivaceâ.

THE CLUB‐BEARER BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong,
swollen and somewhat obliquely produced at the
base, scarcely umbilicated, whorls eight in number,
longitudinally rudely striated, crenulated at the
sutures, columella somewhat depressly reﬂected, lip
simple or a little reﬂected, compressed at the upper
part ; pale livid olive.

PETIT, Mag. de Zool. 1844, pl. 94.

Hab. Madagascar.

The sutures, as in many species of this form, are white.