BULIMUS.

PLATE LII.

Species 340. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SYLVATICUS. Bul. testâ elongato-turritâ, gracil-
limâ, solidiusculâ, anfractibus undecim, plano-convexis,
lœvibus, aut minutissimè striatis, politis, apice sub-
papillaribus, aperturâ parvâ, columellâ labroque sim-
plicibus ; eburneâ, epidermide tenui stramineâ partim
indutâ.

THE SYLVAN BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted, very
slender, rather solid, whorls eleven in number, ﬂatly
convex, smooth, polished, somewhat papillary at the
apex, aperture small, lip and columella simple ; ivory
white, partially covered with a light straw-coloured
epidermis.

WAGNER, Spix. Test. Bras. p. 11. pl. 10. f. 4.

Hab. Mexico and Brazil (in the woods) ; Spix.

A semitransparent ivory-white shining shell, partially
covered with a slight epidermis.

Species 341. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TEREBRASTER. Bul. testâ elongato-turritâ,
tenui, pellucidâ, apice tumidâ, subtruncatâ, anfractibus
novem undique creberrimè concentricè elevato-striatis,
columellâ tenui, simplicissimâ, introrsum arcuatâ, labro
tenuissimo, acuto ; corneo-luteâ.

THE TERETE BULIMUS Shell elongately turreted, thin,
transparent, whorls nine in number, swollen at the
apex, somewhat truncated, very closely concentrically
sculptured throughout with raised striæ, columella
thin, very simple, arched inwardly, lip very thin and
sharp ; horny yellow.

FERUSSAC, Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.)
vol. 8. p. 234.

Bulimus haplostylus, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. El Catamaija, near Loxa, Republic of Equador,
South America ; Hartweg.

Chieﬂy distinguished by the very simple structure of the
columella and the raised concentric striæ which have
almost the appearance of ﬁne ribs.

I am indebted to a visit to the collection of the Rev.
S. C. E. Neville Rolfe of Heacham Hall, for having had my
attention directed to the above recorded species of De
Férussac, with which Dr. Pfeiﬀer does not seem to have
been acquainted.

Species 342. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CALCAREUS. Bul. testâ elongato-turritâ, apicem
versus solidiusculâ, tumidâ, anfractibus duodecim, lon-
gitudinaliter subtiliter striatis, striis minutis impressis
spiralibus decussatis, aperturâ parvâ, columellâ labroque
simplicibus ; calcareo-albâ, epidermide castaneo-brunneo
nitente indutâ.

THE LIME‑WHITE BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted,
rather solid and swollen towards the apex, whorls
twelve in number, longitudinally ﬁnely striated, de‑
cussated with minute spiral impressed striæ, aperture
small, lip and columella simple ; chalk-white, covered
with a shining chesnut brown epidermis.

WAGNER, Spix. Test. Bras. p. 10.

Helix calcarea, Born.
Bulimus maritimus, Spix, Deshayes.

Hab. Brazil,

M. Deshayes is correct in assigning this species to the
B. maritimus of Spix, but it will be found to agree also
with the Helix calcarea of Born, represented in the Mus.
Cæs. Vindobonense, stripped of its rich brown chesnut
epidermis, beneath which it is of a peculiar opake lime-white
character. It is the largest and most solid of the turri-
culated Bulimi, and has not a reﬂected lip.

Species 343. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS OBELISCUS. Bul. testâ elongato-turritâ, acumi‑
natâ, anfractibus sedecim ad octodecim, plano-convexis,
subtiliter obliquè striatis, striis minutissimis spiralibus
impressis decussatis, columellâ labroque simplicissimis ;
albâ, epidermide tenuiculâ luteo-olivaceâ indutâ.

THE OBELISK BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted, acu‑
minated, whorls eighteen in number, ﬂatly convex,
ﬁnely obliquely striated, and decussated with very
minute spiral impressed striæ, lip and columella very
simple ; whitish, covered with a rather thin yellowish
epidermis.

Helix obeliscus, Moricand, Mém. Genève, vol. vi. p. 540.
pl. 1. f. 4.

Hab. Near Caravalhas, Brazil ; Moricand.

Distinguished by having the largest number of whorls
and most sharply terete growth, whilst the epidermis is
very thin, and of a light yellowish olive-colour. It should

November, 1848.