BULIMUS.

PLATE LIII.

Species 346. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONSIMILIS. Bul. testâ oblongâ, subcylindraceâ,
basi rotundatâ, tenui, anfractibus sex ad septem, longi-
tudinaliter tenui-striatis, ultimo ventricosiusculo, colu‐
mellâ simplicissimâ, labro simplici ; brunnescente,
nitente, strigis saturatioribus hic illic notatâ, aperturœ
fauce cœrulescente.

THE SIMILAR BULIMUS. Shell oblong, somewhat cylin‐
drical, rounded at the base, thin, whorls six to seven
in number, longitudinally ﬁnely striated, last whorl
rather ventricose, columella very simple, lip simple ;
light brown, marked here and there with streaks of
darker brown, interior of the aperture bluish.

Hab.—?

This shell approaches nearest to the B. Taunaisii, but
is certainly distinct.

Species 347. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TENEBRICUS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ,
anfractibus septem ad octo, subrotundatis, prope su-
turas subtilissimè reticulatis, margine crenulatis, colu‐
mellâ revolutâ, labro simplici, acuto ; albidâ, purpureo-
roseo tinctâ, purpureo-nigricante conspicuè grandi-
maculatâ.

THE DARKENED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong,
whorls seven to eight in number, rather rounded,
very ﬁnely reticulated near the sutures, crenulated
along the edge, columella rolled back, lip simple,
sharp ; whitish, stained with purple-rose and conspi‐
cuously painted with large blotches of purple-black.

Hab. Ibu, West Africa ; Fraser.

Distinguished from B. ﬂammeus, by its dwarf-like growth
and rich purple-rose hue. The specimen here represented,
was collected by Mr. Fraser during the unfortunate Ex‐
pedition to explore the source of the Niger.

Species 348. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SPECTRALIS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ,
vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, Iœvibus, columellâ
revolutâ, labro tenui, acuto ; albidâ, epidermide tenui,
stramineâ indutâ.

THE SPECTRAL BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong,

slightly umbilicated, whorls seven in number, smooth,
columella rolled back, lip thin, sharp ; whitish,
covered with a thin straw-coloured epidermis.

Hab.—?

Care must be taken not to confound this species with
the uncoloured variety of B. ﬂammeus, from which it diﬀers
in form, and in not being reticulated.

Species 349. (Mus. Metcalfe.)

BULIMUS INCA. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ, umbili‐
catâ, anfractibus septem ad octo, longitudinaliter pli-
cato-striatis, suturis subprofundis, columellâ latè re-
ﬂexâ, labro paululum reﬂexo ; nigricante-brunneâ,
subolivaceâ, columellâ albâ, aperturœ fauce purpureo-
cinereâ.

THE INCA BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, umbili‐
cated, whorls seven to eight in number, longitudinally
plicately striated, sutures rather deep, columella
broadly reﬂected, lip a little reﬂected ; blackish-
brown, tinged with olive, columella white, interior
of the aperture purple-ash.

D’ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l’Amér. Mérid. p. 292. pl. 38.
f. 6, 7.

Hab. Yungas and Cochabamba, Bolivia; D’Orbigny.

The specimen here represented from the collection of
Mr. Metcalfe, is the only one that I am aware of in this
country.

Species 350. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS SUFFUSUS. Bul. testâ elongato-cylindraceâ, um‐
bilicatâ, anfractibus novem, subobsoletè plicato-striatis,
margine crenulatis, Iœvibus, nitidis, suturis profundis,
aperturâ parvâ, oblongâ, columellâ revolutâ, labro sim‐
plici, acuto ; albâ, roseo suﬀusâ, epidermide tenui lutes-
cente indutâ.

THE BLUSHING BULIMUS. Shell elongately cylindrical,
umbilicated, whorls nine in number, rather obsoletely
plicately striated, crenulated at the margin, smooth,
shining, sutures deep, aperture small, oblong, colu‐
mella rolled back, lip simple, acute ; whitish, suﬀused
with rose, and covered with a thin yellowish epi‐
dermis.

Hab.—?

November, 1848.