BULIMUS.—PLATE LXII.

to the liberality of A. L. Gubba, Esq., of Havre. It is
of a swollen ovate form with the spire rather sharply
acuminated, and the columella is distinguished by a sharp
winding plait. The ground colour of the shell is a reddish
purple, the last whorl being particularly characterized by
a thin ash-coloured epidermis, sprinkled with light fulvous
spots, all inclining towards the lip which is of a delicate
ﬂesh-pink.

Species 428. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LINEATUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-conicâ, sub-
umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, lœvibus, sub lente
minutè striatis, columellâ latè reﬂexâ, aperturâ subobli-
quâ, labro paululum reﬂexo; albidâ, cinnamomeo-fus-
cescente obliquè lineatâ et strigatâ, labro niveo.

THE LINEATED BULIMUS. Shell acuminately conical,
slightly umbilicated, whorls seven in number, smooth,
minutely striated beneath the lens, columella broadly
reﬂected, aperture rather oblique, lip a little reﬂected;
whitish, obliquely lineated and streaked with light
cinnamon brown, lip snow-white.

SPIX, Test. Bras. p. 8. pl. 7. f. 6.

Hab. Brazil.

Not much unlike the B. cinnamomeo-lineatus in general
appearance.

Species 429. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PSEUDO‐SUCCINEA. Bul. testâ subfusiformi-
oblongâ, tenuissimâ, vitreâ, pellucidâ, anfractibus quin-

que ad sex, subtilissimè striatulis, ultimo inﬂato, patulo,
columellâ labroque tenuibus, simplicibus; stramineo-
corneâ.

THE FALSE‐SUCCINEA BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusi-
formly oblong, very thin, glassy, transparent, whorls
ﬁve to six in number, very ﬁnely and delicately stri‐
ated, last whorl inﬂated, wide open, lip and columella
thin, simple; pale straw horn-colour.

POTIEZ and MICHAUD, Gal. de Douai, vol. i. p. 140. pl.
13. f. 5. 6.

Helix pseudo-Succinea, Moricand.

Hab. Bahia, Brazil.

An extremely transparent glassy shell of a delicate pale
straw-colour.

Species 430. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NATALENSIS. Bul. testâ angulato-conicâ, Tro-
chiformi, anfractibus sex, obliquè striatis, ultimo angu-
lato-productis, columellâ subincrassatâ, labro simplici;
fulvâ, nitente, nigro-fusco conspicuè fasciatâ.

THE NATAL BULIMUS. Shell angularly conical, Tro-
chus-shaped, whorls six in number, obliquely striated,
last whorl angularly produced, columella rather
thickened, lip simple; fulvous, shining, conspicuously
banded with black-brown.

KRAUSS, Sudafrikanischen Moll. p. 71. pl. 5. f. 1.

Hab. Port Natal, South Africa.

A light semitransparent trochiform shell, conspicuously
dark-banded at the sutures and round the middle of the
last whorl.