BULIMUS—PLATE LXIII.

Species 436. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS KRAUSSI. Bul. testâ ovato-ventricosâ, anfrac‐
tibus septam, undique pulcherrimè minutè granulatis,
longitudinaliter plicato-striatis, columellâ strictè reﬂexâ,
labro subincrassato, non reﬂexo; albidâ, rufo-fusco
apicem versus conspicuè ﬂammatâ, et supra suturas
peculiariter articulatâ, columellâ labrique limbo interno
intensè castaneo-purpureis.

KRAUSS’S BULIMUS. Shell ovately ventricose, whorls
seven in number, very beautifully minutely granulated
throughout, longitudinally plicately striated, colu‐
mella closely reﬂected, lip rather thickened, not
reﬂected; whitish, conspicuously ﬂamed with reddish
brown towards the apex, and peculiarly articulated
above the sutures with the same colour, columella
and inner edge of the lip deep chesnut-purple.

PFEIFFER, Symbolæ, vol. iii. p. 85. Krauss, Die Suda-
frikanischen Mollusken, p. 78. pl. 5. f. 4.

Hab. Natal, South Africa (in the woods); Krauss.

This magniﬁcent species, from a locality which has
contributed little of particular interest to this genus, par‐
takes very much of the form of B. oblongus and its
congeners from South Eastern America. In colouring
it is characterized by a singular articulated band around
the sutures, and the lip and columella are coated with an
enamel of deep chesnut-purple. In sculpture the entire
surface of the shell is beautifully minutely granulated,
besides being plicately striated, a character to which it is
proper to direct attention from the diﬃculty of representing
it in a ﬁgure.

The discovery of this ﬁne species by Dr. Krauss in the
woods of South Africa, gives us some idea of the
richly painted snails and other animal forms that may be
dwelling at this moment in the vast unexplored regions
of that immense continent so fatal to European health and
enterprise.

Species 437. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUBESCENS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, umbili-
catâ, anfractibus sex ad septem, subrotundatis, sub lente
minutissimè reticulatis, columellâ uniplicatâ, reﬂexâ,

labro reﬂexo; pellucido-corneâ, epidermide tenui pubes-
cente indutâ, columellâ labroque albidis.

THE PUBESCENT BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, umbili-
cated, whorls six to seven in number, somewhat
rounded, very minutely reticulated beneath the lens,
columella one-plaited, reﬂected, lip reﬂected; trans‐
parent horny, covered with a thin pubescent epidermis,
lip and columella whitish.

MORICAND, Mém. 3rd Supp. p. 63. pl. 5. f. 21–23.

Hab. Bahia, Brazil.

Distinguished by its minutely reticulated surface, and
pubescent epidermis.

Species 438. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FRATERCULUS. Bul. testâ subacuminato-ovatâ,
umbilicatâ, tenuiculâ, anfractibus sex, obliquè tenuis-
simè plicato-striatis, striis impressis spiralibus parallelis
remotis decussatis, columellâ reﬂexâ, labro simplici;
pellucido-corneâ.

THE ALLIED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat acuminately
ovate, umbilicated, rather thin, whorls six in number,
obliquely very ﬁnely plicately striated, decussated
with remote parallel spiral impressed striæ, columella
reﬂected, lip simple; transparent horny.

POTIEZ and MICHAUD, Gal. de Douai, p. 141. pl. 13. f. 7, 8.

Cochlogena fraterculus, Férussac.

Hab. Guadaloupe.

The remote spiral striæ which characterize this shell,
are totally diﬀerent in appearance from those which tra‐
verse it obliquely.

Species 439. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ORBIGNII. Bul. testâ acuminato-oblongâ, umbi‐
licatâ, anfractibus septem, concentricè creberrimè tenui-
liratis, columellâ subreﬂexâ, labro simplici; albâ.

ORBIGNY’S BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, whorls
seven in number, concentrically very closely ﬁnely
ridged, columella slightly reﬂected, lip simple; white.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 31.

Hab. Lima.

Very like the B. scalariformis in general aspect, but
suﬃciently distinct on comparison.