BULIMUS.—PLATE LXIX.

scarcely umbilicated, sutures impressed, whorls ten
to eleven in number, very closely and ﬁnely concen‐
trically striated, columella thin, shortly reﬂected,
aperture slightly contracted at the upper part, lip
simple; dull brownish horn colour.

HUTTON, Journ. Asiatic Soc., 1834. vol. iii. p. 84.

An eadem, Bulimus Iudicus, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. Bundelkhund, and all the plain Provinces of the
Bengal Presidency; Benson. Point de Galle, Ceylon;
Benson.

Dr. Pfeiﬀer's B. Indicus appears to be merely an imma‐
ture state of this species.

Species 496. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS NIVICOLA. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-ovatâ, obesâ,
ventricosâ, sinistrâ, compressè umbilicatâ, anfractibus
septem, convexis, obliquè striatis, ad suturas subobscurè
crenulatis, columellâ latiusculâ, appressâ, aperturâ
parvâ, labro leviter expanso; rufo-fuscâ, strigis albis
obliquis hic illic irregulariter interruptis notatâ, epi-
dermide tenui lutescente indutâ.

THE SNOW-INHABITING BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically
ovate, stout, ventricose, sinistral, compressly umbi‐
licated, whorls seven in number, convex, obliquely
striated, somewhat obscurely crenulated at the sutures,
columella rather broad, appressed, aperture small, lip
slightly expanded; red-brown, marked here and there
with irregularly interrupted oblique white streaks,
covered with a thin yellowish epidermis.

BENSON, MSS.

Pupa sylvatica, Hutton (ﬁde Benson.)

Hab. Liti Pass, Western Himalaya (among juniper bushes
and patches of snow at nearly 14,000 feet above the
level of the sea); Capt. Hutton.

Mr. Benson is of opinion that this species, distinguished
by its stout cylindrical form and reversed growth, which
has been upwards of twelve years in his collection, is
the Pupa sylvatica of Hutton, described in M‘Clelland’s
Journal for January, 1841, as being found among juniper
bushes at Burrenda Pass, and of which the name is pre‐
occupied in the present genus to which this species strictly
belongs. It is remarkable for its stout cylindrical form
and reversed growth; it should, however, be remembered
when referring to the plate, that the ﬁgure is very con‐
siderably magniﬁed.

Species 497. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TURRICULA. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-turritâ,
minutè umbilicatâ, prope apicem peculiariter attenuatâ,
anfractibus novem, rotundatis, perobliquè creberrimè
costulato-striatis, columellâ latè appressâ, aperturâ ferè
circulari; fuscescente, strigis arcuatis albis fusco-um-
bratis hic illic marmoratâ.

THE LITTLE TURRET BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically tur-
reted, minutely umbilicated, peculiarly attenuated
near the apex, whorls nine in number, rounded, very
obliquely closely striated in a ﬁne rib-like manner,
columella broadly appressed, aperture nearly circular;
light brown, marbled here and there with arched
brown-shaded white streaks.

PFEIFFER, Wiegman, Archiv., 1839. vol. i. p. 351.

Hab. Cuba.

An interesting little species allied in form to the
B. Gossei.

Fig. 498. (Mus. Cuming.)

This little triangular shell, of which the ﬁgure is very
highly magniﬁed, proves to be the extreme young of
B. cœlebs (B. solitarius, Hutton) Pl. XLVII. Sp. 301, from
Western Himalaya.

For Sp. 498. see Pl. LXX.

Species 499. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS VENTROSUS. Bul. testâ subpyramidali-conicâ,
minutè et profundè umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, pla-
nulato-convexis, peculiariter obscurè plicato-corrugatis,
columellâ reﬂexâ, aperturâ ferè circulari, labro sim-
plici; albidâ, basi nigricante unifasciatâ.

THE VENTRICOSE BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally
conical, minutely and deeply umbilicated, whorls
seven in number, rather ﬂatly convex, peculiarly
obscurely plicately wrinkled, columella reﬂected,
aperture nearly circular, lip simple; whitish, encircled
with a narrow black band at the base.

Helix ventrosa, Férussac, Prodrome, 377.

Bulimus ventricosus, Draparnaud.
Bulimus variabilis, Hartman.
Helix acuta, Webb and Berthelot.

The narrow black band which encircles the base of this
shell is not an unimportant character.