BULIMUS—PLATE LXXVIII.

Fig. 572.

As this species belongs more properly to Achatina, the
reader is referred to Plate XXI. of that genus for de‐
scription. For Bulimus Sp. 572, see Pl. LXXX.

Species 573. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS EREMITA. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ, sub-
profundè umbilicatâ, anfractibus octo, convexis, obscurè
subirregulariter striatis, aperturâ obliquè productâ,
columellâ latâ, labro paululum, expanso; cœrulescente-
albâ.

THE HERMIT BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, rather
deeply umbilicated, whorls eight in number, convex,
obscurely rather irregularly striated, aperture obli‐
quely produced, columella broad, lip a little expanded;
bluish-white.

BENSON, MSS.

Hab. Afghanistan; Hutton.

Collected by Capt. Hutton on his march with Shah
Shuja’s force from the Bolun Pass to Cabul, during the
recent operations of the British Army in India.

Species 574. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS RUSTICUS. Bul. testâ ovatâ, solidiusculâ, haud
umbilicatâ, spirâ obtusâ, anfractibus quinque ad sex,
convexis, lœvibus, columellâ plano-incrassatâ, subcal-
losâ, quasi dentatâ, aperturâ obliquâ, labro reﬂexo;
castaneo-brunneâ, circa columellam obscurè fasciatâ,
albidâ versus apicem, columellâ labroque albis.

THE SIMPLE BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather solid, not
umbilicated, spire obtuse, whorls ﬁve to six in
number, convex, smooth, columella ﬂatly thickened,
rather callous, as if toothed, aperture oblique, lip
reﬂected; chestnut-brown, obscurely banded around
the columella, white towards the apex, lip and colu‐
mella white.

MOUSSON, Land and Suss. Moll. Java, p. 114. pl. 22 f. 1.

Hab. Eastern Java.

I am indebted to Mr. Benson for an authentic example
of this species, received from M. Mousson. It is, however,
impossible to describe it satisfactorily, owing to the shell
having lost its epidermis, which, to judge by analogy,
would aﬀord important characters.

The author notices having a number of dead specimens
in his possession, collected in Eastern Java, and remarks,
that it is the only representative hitherto found in that
island, of the richly clad group, comprising B. pytho-
gaster and its congeners, inhabiting the Philippines.

Species 575. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS BOYSIANUS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ,
sinistrali, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus octo, convexis,
subrugoso-striatis, ad suturas subtilissimè plicatis, lineis
spiralibus, sub lente minutè decussatis, columellâ re-
ﬂexâ; corneo-fuscâ, lineis undulatis opaco-albis varie-
gatâ.

BOYS’ BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, sinistral,
scarcely umbilicated, whorls eight in number, convex,
rather coarsely striated, very ﬁnely plicated at the
sutures, minutely decussated beneath the lens with
spiral lines; horny brown, variegated with waved
opake-white lines.

BENSON, MSS.

Hab. Kemaon, Western Himalaya; Boys.

Named by Mr. Benson in honour of Capt. Boys, to
whom we are indebted for this and many interesting
species collected in North Western India.

Species 576. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS CHERSONESICUS, Bul. testâ acuminato-cylin-
draceâ, sinistrali, compressè umbilicatâ, anfractibus
octo, convexis, subobscurè rugoso-striatis, columellâ
latâ, verticali; cœrulescente-albâ, fulvescente hic illic
pallidè tinctâ, aperturœ fauce pallidè aurantiâ.

THE CRIMEA BULIMUS. Shell acuminately cylindrical,
sinistral, compressly umbilicated, whorls eight in
number, convex, somewhat obscurely coarsely stria‐
ted, columella broad, vertical; bluish-white, faintly
tinged here and there with light brown, interior of
the aperture light orange.

SOWERBY, MSS. Jay, Catalogue, 1839, p. 55.

Hab. Crimea, Southern Russia.

This is one of the list of species unknown to Dr.
Pfeiﬀer. The specimen here ﬁgured from the collection
of Mr. Benson was received from Mr. Sowerby with the
above name in 1834.

Species 577. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONULUS. Bul. testâ conico-ovatâ, vix umbili‐
catâ, anfractibus septem, rotundatis, obliquè subtilis-
simè striatis; pellucido-corneâ.

THE LITTLE CONE BULIMUS. Shell conically ovate, scarcely
umbilicated, whorls seven in number, rounded, ob‐
liquely very ﬁnely striated; transparent horny.

Hab. Port Natal, South Africa.

Very thin and transparent, of a conical form rather
broad at the base.