BULIMUS.

PLATE LXXVIII.

Species 568. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LATIREFLEXUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-cylindra‐
ceâ, subobesâ, semipellucidâ, compressè umbilicatâ, an‐
fractibus octo, obliquè creberrimè plicato-striatis, infra
suturas lineâ marginatis, columellâ latâ, verticali, aper‐
turâ suborbiculari, labro latè reﬂexo ; fulvescente-
corneâ, labro opaco-albidâ.

THE BROADLY‐REFLECTED BULIMUS. Shell acuminately
cylindrical, rather stout, semitransparent, compressly
umbilicated, whorls eight in number, obliquely very
closely plicately striated, edged with a line beneath
the sutures, columella broad, vertical, aperture nearly
orbicular, lip broadly reﬂected ; fulvous horny, lip
opake fulvous-white.

Hab. Muscat?

Mr. Cuming has every reason to believe that this ﬁne
species is from Muscat, Arabia.

Species 569. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS CERATINUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-oblongâ, tenui,
compressè umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex ad septem, con-
vexis, subobscurè irregulariter sulcato-striatis, columellâ
latè verticaliter reﬂexâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, suborbi‐
culari, pellucido-corneâ.

THE INTRICATE BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, thin,
compressly umbilicated, whorls six to seven in number,
convex, somewhat obscurely irregularly striated in a
grooved manner, columella broadly vertically reﬂected,
aperture rather small, nearly orbicular ; transparent
horny.

BENSON, MSS.

Hab. Almorah, Kemaon, Western Himalaya ; Capt. Boys.

Distinguished from B. montanus, to which it is next
allied, by its delicate transparent texture and absence of
granules.

Species 570. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS RUFISTRIGATUS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ,
compressè umbilicatâ, anfractibus octo, plano-convexis,
lœvibus, ad suturas minutè crenulatis, aperturâ par-
viusculâ, suborbiculari ; fulvo-corneâ, opaco-albo irre‐
gulariter tenuistrigatâ.

THE RED‐STREAKED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically ob‐
long, compressly umbilicated, whorls eight in number,
ﬂatly convex, smooth, minutely crenulated at the
sutures, aperture rather small, nearly orbicular ;
fulvous horny, irregularly ﬁnely streaked with opake-
white.

BENSON, MSS.

Hab. At the base of the lower range of the Himalaya,
between the rivers Jumna and Sutlej ; Hutton.

Communicated to Mr. Benson by Capt. Hutton with the
title Pupa strigata, of which the speciﬁc name is occupied
in the present genus.

Species 571. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS BENSONI. Bul. testâ acuminato-ovatâ, haud
umbilicatâ, anfractibus octo, transversim minutè et
creberrimè striatis, striis subtilissimè granulatis, pecu-
liariter corrugato-undulatis, columellâ tenuiculâ, leviter
contortâ, labro vix reﬂexo ; violascente-albâ, purpuras-
cente-fusco variegatâ, fasciis albis duabus tribusve,
maculis intensè purpureis sagittalibus notatis, cingulatâ,
columellâ castaneo-fuscâ.

BENSON’S BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate, not umbi‐
licated, whorls eight in number, transversely minutely
and very closely striated, striæ very ﬁnely granulated,
peculiarly corrugately waved, columella rather thin,
slightly twisted, lip scarcely reﬂected ; violet-tinged
white, variegated with purple-brown, encircled with
two or three white bands marked with deep purple
arrow-head spots, columella chesnut brown.

Hab. Banks of the river Amazon.

This ﬁne species, which I have the honour to name
after a gentleman who has aﬀorded me much valuable
information on the Bulimi of Bengal, Afghanistan and
North Western India, is closely allied in general aspect
to the B. zebra. Its chief point of diﬀerence consists in
the minute waved-striated semigranular sculpture which
characterises the entire surface of the shell, whilst the
design of painting is marked by the presence of two white
bands, painted with dark purple arrow-head spots, pointing
towards the lip.

September, 1849.