BULIMUS.—PLATE LXXXI.

ously streaked or banded, columella and interior of
the aperture rose-purple.

Hab. New Granada.

Except in the rose-purple hue of the columella and
aperture, the pattern of colouring is too variable in this
beautiful species to particularize. Its graceful eﬀused
growth is characteristic.

Species 602. (Mus. Taylor.)

BULIMUS TAYLORIANUS. Bul. testâ ventricoso-oblongâ,
tenui, inﬂatâ, haud umbilicatâ, anfractibus quinque,
longitudinaliter obscurè plicato-striatis, ad suturas levi-
ter crenulatis, sub lente undique minutissimè granulatis,
anfractu ultimo valdè maximo, peculiariter descendente,
columellâ tenuissimâ, reﬂexâ, labro vix reﬂexo; cas-
taneo-fuscâ, semipellucidâ, lineis perpaucis nigris api-
cem. versus fulguratâ, columellâ labroque roseo tinctis.

TAYLOR’S BULIMUS. Shell ventricosely oblong, thin,
inﬂated, not umbilicated, whorls ﬁve in number, lon‐
gitudinally obscurely plicately striated, slightly cre-
nulated at the sutures, very minutely granulated
throughout beneath the lens, last whorl very much
the largest, peculiarly descending, columella very
thin, reﬂected, lip scarcely reﬂected; chestnut-brown,
semipellucid, lightning-marked towards the apex
with a few black lines, lip and columella tinged with
rose.

Hab. Environs of Quito.

A delicate inﬂated species of a dark transparent brown
colour, marked with dark zigzag lines near the apex, and
having the thin lip and columellar edge tinged with rose.

Being indebted to Thomas Lombe Taylor, Esq., for the
species, I have the pleasure to name it in honour of that
distinguished collector.

Species 603. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SINISTRALIS. Bul. testâ, subacuminato-ob-
longâ, crassiusculâ, sinistrali, vix umbilicatâ, anfrac-

tibus septem, subrotundatis, obliquè striatis, columellâ
reﬂexâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro reﬂexo; luteâ,
olivaceo-viridi marmoratâ, aperturœ fauce intensè fuscâ,
labro albo.

THE SINISTRAL BULIMUS. Shell somewhat acuminately
oblong, rather thick, sinistral, scarcely umbilicated,
whorls seven in number, somewhat rounded, obliquely
striated, columella reﬂected, aperture rather small,
lip reﬂected; yellow, marbled with olive-green, inte‐
rior of the aperture very dark brown, lip white.

Hab. Java.

Care should be taken not to confound this species with
the green variety of B. lœvus, elevated to the rank of a
species by Mousson, under the name B. furcillatus, from
which it is certainly distinct.

Species 604. (Mus. Taylor.)

BULIMUS ALBIZONATUS. Bul. testâ subpyramidali-conicâ,
basi depressiusculâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem,
plano-convexis, obliquè tenuistriatis, suturis peculiariter
lineari‐incisis, anfractu, ultimo basi angulato, colu‐
mellâ latè reﬂexâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro reﬂexo;
intus extusque cœrulescente-albâ, zonulâ angustâ opaco-
albâ ad angulum anfractûs ultimi.

THE WHITE-ZONED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyrami‐
dally conical, rather depressed at the base, scarcely
umbilicated, whorls seven in number, ﬂatly convex,
obliquely ﬂnely striated, sutures peculiarly linearly
engraved, last whorl angled at the base, columella
broadly reﬂected; bluish white within and without,
having a narrow opake white zone at the angle of
the last whorl.

Hab. Ceylon.

A pale blue-white shell, remarkably characterized by a
narrow opake-white zone round the middle of the whorls,
exactly in the place of the suture, concealed in all but
the last whorl by the superposition of one whorl upon the
other.