BULIMUS.—PLATE LXXXIII.

somewhat obscurely stained with streaks of blue-
black, lip and columella pale rose.

Hab. Sebundoi, New Granada.

Distinguished by its elegantly eﬀused growth. The
dark painting is somewhat obscure and has a mottled
appearance.

Species 616. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LÆTUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-oblongâ, vix um-
bilicatâ, anfractibus sex, lœvibus vel tenuistriatis, colu‐
mellâ reﬂexâ, appressâ, aperturâ ovatâ, labro vix re‐
ﬂexâ; castaneo‐spadiceâ, zonulis duabus angustis luteo-
albis cingulatâ, columellâ labroque roseis.

THE CHEERFUL BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong,
scarcely umbilicated, whorls six in number, smooth
or ﬁnely striated, columella reﬂected, appressed,
aperture ovate, lip scarcely reﬂected; chestnut-fawn
colour, encircled by two narrow yellowish-white
zones, lip and columella rose-pink.

Hab. Sebundoi, New Granada.

From the same locality as the preceding species, and
very closely allied; it diﬀers, however, in form. Mr.
Taylor has a specimen collected independently of this, of
exactly similar pattern and colour.

Species 617. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS OCCULTUS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-fusiformi, basi
angustè compressâ, subumbilicatâ, anfractibus novem,
plano-convexis, ad suturas superﬁcialiter canaliculatis,
aperturâ quadrato-oblongâ, tridentatâ, labro tenui,
eﬀuso; pellucido-albâ, ad umbilicum atque pone labrum
nigricante-castaneo tnictâ.

THE CONCEALED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically fusi‐
form, narrowly compressed at the base, slightly
umbilicated, whorls nine in number, ﬂatly convex,
superﬁcially channelled at the sutures, aperture
squarely oblong, three-toothed, lip thin, eﬀused;
transparent white, stained with dark chestnut at
the umbilicus, and behind the lip.

Hab. Brazil.

Allied in form and general aspect to B. Bahiensis, but
diﬀering materially in the character of the aperture.

Species 618. (Mus. Taylor.)

BULIMUS QUINQUEDENTATUS. Bul. testâ cylindraceâ,
crassiusculâ, basi compressè umbilicatâ, anfractibus
octo, plano-convexis, obliquè tenuistriatis, aperturâ
parvâ, coarctatâ, quinque-vel sex-dentatâ, labro plano-
incrassato; corneo-olivaceâ, dentibus labroque albis.

THE FIVE‐TOOTHED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrical, rather
thick, base compressly umbilicated, whorls eight in
number, ﬂatly convex, obliquely ﬁnely striated, aper‐
ture small, contracted, ﬁve-or six-toothed, lip ﬂatly
thickened; horny olive, teeth and lip white.

PFEIFFER, Symbolæ, vol. i. p. 84.

Pupa quinquedentata, Mühlfeldt.

Hab. Dalmatia.

A shell of rather solid cylindrical growth, with the
aperture much contracted.

Species 619. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS PRETIOSUS. Bul. testâ cylindraceo-ovatâ, com‐
pressè umbilicatâ, anfractibus lœvibus aut tenuistriatis,
columellâ latè verticaliter dilatatâ, aperturâ parvius-
culâ, suborbiculari, labro tenuè reﬂexâ; pallidè corneâ,
pellucidâ, strigis opaco-albis numerosis undatâ.

THE PRECIOUS BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically ovate, com‐
pressly umbilicated, whorls smooth or ﬁnely striated,
columella broadly vertically dilated, aperture rather
small, nearly orbicular, lip thinly reﬂected; pale
horny, transparent, waved with numerous opake-
white streaks.

CANTOR, MS.

Hab. Field of Chillianwalla, India (found on Mimosa
bushes on the banks of the Jhelum); Cantor.

An extremely delicate and interesting species, allied to
B. ruﬁstrigatus, from which it diﬀers slightly in form, but
most distinctly in pattern. Mr. Benson, to whom it was
communicated by Dr. Cantor, informs me that it was col‐
lected during the late campaign of the British army in
the Punjab, on the plain of Chillianwalla, the locality of
Lord Gough’s dearly purchased victory.