BULIMUS.

PLATE LXXXIV.

Species 593. (Mus. Adams.)

BULIMUS OCTONOIDES. Bul. testâ subelongatâ, spirœ
suturis impressis, anfractibus septem, supernè rotundatis
et concentricè impresso-striatis, columellâ tenuè reﬂexâ,
aperturâ parvâ, labro simplici; pallidè stramineâ,
diaphanâ.

THE OCTONOID BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongated,
sutures of the spire impressed, whorls seven in number,
rounded at the upper part and concentrically impressly
striated, columella thinly reﬂected, aperture small,
lip simple; light straw-colour, diaphanous.

ADAMS, Pro. Nat. Hist. Soc. Boston, 1845, p. 12.

Hab. Jamaica.

Named to denote its general resemblance with the
B. octonus, which is referred to Achatina.

I am indebted for eight of the species of this plate to
the kindness of Mr. C. B. Adams, Professor of Zoology,
&c., in Amherst College, Massachusetts. They were col‐
lected during an excursion in Jamaica, in company with
the Honourable Mr. Chitty, Chairman of Quarter Sessions
in that Island, together with a number of interesting land
shells of other genera, which Mr. Adams is preparing for
publication in a periodical pamphlet form, under the title
of ‘Contributions to Conchology.’

Species 620. (Mus. Adams.)

BULIMUS TEREBELLA. Bul. testâ subulatâ, anfractibus
octo, convexiusculis, concentricè impresso-striatis, colu‐
mellâ tenuè reﬂexâ, aperturâ parvâ, labro simplici;
sordidè fuscescente.

THE LITTLE AUGUR BULIMUS. Shell subulate, whorls
eight in number, rather convex, concentrically im‐
pressly striated, columella thinly reﬂected, aperture
small, lip simple; dull brownish.

ADAMS, MS.

Hab. Jamaica.

This is the most elongated form of the Jamaica type,
of light diaphanous growth, concentrically impressly stri‐
ated. It is very minute, and, with the rest of the species
of this plate, considerably magniﬁed.

Species 621. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GOODALLII. Bul. testâ conico-elongatâ, vix
umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, convexiusculis, lœvibus,

columellâ subcontortâ, tenuè reﬂexâ, aperturâ parvâ,
labro simplici; pellucido-corneâ.

GOODALL’S BULIMUS. Shell conically elongated, scarcely
umbilicated, whorls seven in number, slightly convex,
smooth, columella somewhat twisted, thinly reﬂected,
aperture small, lip simple; transparent horny.

Helix Goodallii, Miller, Ann. Phil. 1822, p. 381.

Bulimus Goodallii, Gray.
Helix (Cochlicella) clavulus, Férussac.
Bulimus clavulinus, Potiez and Michaud.
Bulimus pumilus, Pfeiﬀer.

Hab. West Indies.

This little species, being transported from Jamaica, has
become partially naturalized in this country, and is in‐
cluded by some authors in the British fauna. It is found
abundantly in the pine-pits at Bristol, especially on the
sides of the pots, where they are immersed in the decayed
bark.

Species 622. (Mus. Adams.)

BULIMUS MIRABILIS. Bul. testâ pyramidali-conicâ, an‐
fractibus octo, rotundatis, supernè squamis grandibus
erectis undique peculiariter coronatis, columellâ con-
tortâ, aperturâ parvâ, medio contractâ; carneo-fus-
cescente.

THE WONDERFUL BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally conical,
whorls eight in number, rounded, peculiarly coro‐
nated throughout with large erect scales, columella
twisted, aperture small, contracted in the middle;
light ﬂesh-brown.

ADAMS, MS.

Hab. Jamaica.

The whorls in this remarkable species are contracted in
the middle, and the upper portion is prominently coronated
throughout with broad vaulted scales.

The three following Bulimi of Adams are numbered to
belong to Achatina, under which genus the descriptions
are given at PI. XXII.

Species 623. (Mus. Adams.)

BULIMUS MINIMUS. Bul. testâ subulatâ, spirœ suturis
subimpressis, anfractibus septem, subrolundatis, con-

December, 1849.