BULIMUS.—PLATE LXXXIV.

centricè impresso-striatis, columellâ tenuè reﬂexâ, aper‐
turâ parviusculâ, labro simplici; pallidè stramineâ.

THE VERY SMALL BULIMUS. Shell subulate, sutures of
the spire somewhat impressed, whorls seven in num‐
ber, somewhat rounded, concentrically impressly stri‐
ated, columella thinly reﬂected, aperture rather small,
lip simple; light straw-colour.

ADAMS, MS.

Hab. Jamaica.

It may be as well to repeat that all the species of this
plate are very considerably magniﬁed. The B. minimus
under consideration, the smallest of the genus at present
known, is not half the size of a grain of corn.

Species 624. (Mus. Adams.)

BULIMUS PAUPERCULUS. Bul. testâ acuminato-oblongâ,
anfractibus quinque, Iœvibus, supernè vix impresso-
striatis, columellâ tenuè reﬂexâ, aperturâ ovatâ, labro
simplici; sordidè stramineâ.

THE MEAN-LOOKING BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ob‐
long, whorls ﬁve in number, smooth, slightly im‐
pressly striated round the upper part, columella
thinly reﬂected, aperture ovate, lip simple; dull
straw-colour.

ADAMS, MS.

Hab. Jamaica.

It may be observed that there is a great similarity in
the majority of these small Bulimi und Achatinœ from Ja‐
maica. Though speciﬁcally distinct, they are but slight
modiﬁcations of one typical character,—a diaphanous shell
of more or less elongated convolution, with the whorls
concentrically impressly striated.

Species 625. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS TUTULUS. Bul. testâ conicâ, basi latiuculâ,
compressè umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, rotundatis, mi-
nutissimè striatis, columellâ latè verticaliter dilalatâ,
callositate parvâ supra, aperturâ ferè rotundâ, labro
subreﬂexo; pallidè castaneâ, subcorneâ, callositate
albâ.

THE LITTLE TUFT BULIMUS. Shell conical, rather broad
at the base, compressly umbilicated, whorls six in
number, rounded, very minutely striated, columella
broadly vertically dilated, with a small callosity above,
aperture nearly round, lip slightly reﬂected; light
chestnut, somewhat horny, callosity white.

BENSON, MS.

Hab. Humeerpore, Bundelkhund, India; Benson.

This interesting little species is well distinguished by
the broad convolution of the last whorl. Only two speci‐
mens were found.