BULIMUS.—PLATE LXXXVIII.

very minutely indented, columella rather thickened,
reﬂected; whitish, partially tinged with pink, covered
with a thin horny olive-yellow epidermis, interior of
the aperture white.

Hab. Minas Geraes, Brazil; Miers.

This ﬁne species is nearest allied to B. pudicus, from
which the plicate growth of the columella diﬀers materially
in form; whilst the shell is of a more oblong growth.

Species 659. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DOMINICUS. Bul. testâ, ovatâ, tenui, inﬂatâ,
anfractibus quinque, sub lente minutissimè decussatim
striatis, columellâ tenuè reﬂexâ et appressâ, aperturâ
ovatâ, labro simplici; pellucido-corneâ, fasciâ castaneâ
interruptâ cingulatâ, anfractu ultimo trifasciato.

THE DOMINGO BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, inﬂated,
whorls ﬁve in number, very minutely decussately
striated beneath the lens, columella thinly reﬂected
and appressed, aperture ovate, lip simple; trans-
parent horny, encircled with an interrupted chestnut
band, last whorl three-banded.

Hab. St. Domingo; Sallè.

Resembling B. Humboldtii, but much smaller and more
transparent, and of a diﬀerent form.

Species 660. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LIBERIANUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tumi-
diusculâ, compressè umbilicatâ, apice obtusâ, anfractibus
sex, convexis, ad suturas tenuimarginatis, obliquè sub-
tiliter et creberrimè elevato-striatis, columellâ latè ver-
ticaliter reﬂexâ, aperturâ obliquè subquadratâ; pellu-
cido-albâ, immaculatâ.

THE LIBERIAN BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather
swollen, compressly umbilicated, obtuse at the apex,
whorls six in number, convex, thinly margined at the
sutures, obliquely ﬁnely and very closely sculptured
with raised striæ, columella broadly rather vertically
reﬂected, aperture obliquely square-formed; trans-
parent white, unspotted.

GOULD, MSS.

Hab. Liberia, West Africa.

This very interesting species belongs to the same type
as the Pupa grandis of the islands of Socotra and Mada-
gascar, and, bordering on the conﬁnes of the two genera,
may be referred with equal propriety to either.