BULIMUS.

PlATE LXXXIX.

Sp. 367. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS INTERSTINCTUS. Having been favoured
with ﬁner specimens of this very interesting species, col-
lected by Dr. Perkins at Cape Palmas, West Africa, I avail
myself of the opportunity of ﬁguring two characteristic
varieties.

Species 661. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS KELLETTII. Bul. testâ ovatâ, subventricosâ,
anfractibus quinque, convexis, rugoso-striatis, ad suturas
subplicato-crenulatis, anfractu ultimo multò Maximo,
columellâ incrassatâ, peculiariter contortâ, aperturâ
subeﬀusâ, labro incrassato, reﬂexo; cœrulescente-griseâ
saturatè quadrifasciatâ, strigis angustis albis inter-
ruptis et undatis longitudinaliter fulguratâ, columellâ
et aperturœ fauce iridescente-purpureis.

KELLETT'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather ventricose,
whorls ﬁve in number, convex, roughly striated,
somewhat plicately crenulated at the sutures, last
whorl much the largest, columella thickened, pecu-
liarly twisted, aperture rather eﬀused, lip thickened,
reﬂected; bluish-grey, encircled with four bands of a
darker colour, and longitudinally lightning-marked
with narrow waved and interrupted white streaks.

Hab. Ecuador?

I have much pleasure in naming this new and very
beautiful species after the zealous naturalist, Capt. Kellett,
of H. M. S. Herald, by whom it was procured in Central
America, and is probably from Ecuador.

Species 212. (Mus. Miers.)

BULIMUS OVATUS. An interesting white-lip dwarf
variety, from Bahia, described by M. Sowerby in his ‘Con-
chological Illustrations’ under the name B. auritus.

Species 662. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TORRIDUS. Bul. testâ oblongo-tumidâ, apice
subpapillari, anfractibus septem, convexis, obliquè ele-
vato-striatis, ad suturas subtiliter et creberrimè cre-
nulatis, columellâ simplici, aperturâ ovatâ, labro
parùm reﬂexo; ustulato-fuscâ, epidermide olivaceâ
indutâ, aperturæ fauce intensè fuscâ.

THE TORRID BULIMUS. Shell oblong-tumid, somewhat
papillary at the apex, whorls seven in number, convex,
obliquely elevately striated, ﬁnely and very closely
crenulated at the sutures, columella simple, aperture
ovate, lip but little reﬂected; scorched-brown, covered
with an olive epidermis, interior of the aperture dark
brown.

GOULD, MSS.

Hab. Liberia, West Africa.

The African species received from Dr. Gould, of Boston,
United States, just at the close of this monograph, will
probably be described, if not so already, in the Proceedings
of the Natural History Society of that city. They are
of an extremely interesting character, and were collected
by Dr. George A. Perkins, a zealous American missionary,
for many years resident at Cape Palmas.

February, 1850.