ACHATINA.

PLATE I.

Genus ACHATINA, Lamarck.

Testa ovata vel fusiformi-oblonga, anfractibus plerumque stri-
atis vel granatis, columellâ involutâ, basi peculiariter
truncatâ, aperturœ labro simplici, nunquam incrassato
aut reﬂexo. Operculum nullum.

Shell ovate or fusiformly oblong, whorls mostly striated or
grained, columella rolled inwards, peculiarly trun-
cated at the base, lip of the aperture simple, never
thickened or reﬂected. No operculum.

The general aspect of the Achatinœ is very similar to
that of Bulimus, but the particulars of the shell in detail
present a suﬃcient typical diﬀerence throughout. The
chief peculiarity of structure which characterises this genus
resides in the columella, it being always involuted towards
the aperture, and more or less abruptly truncated at the
base. A negative character is also aﬀorded in the outer
lip being never thickened or reﬂected. The Achatinœ are
not of the same arboreal habits as the Bulimi, but dwell in
places where there is more moisture, in swamps or in the
vicinity of lakes and rivers; and are more conﬁned to
particular localities. They comprehend three very distinct
groups, one consisting of large, richly coloured, ventricose
species, chieﬂy inhabiting West Africa, where they may be
said to take the place of the Bulimi, another comprising
numerous delicate species, some of a semi-transparent,
glassy polish, others ﬁnely sculptured with granulated or
raised striæ, inhabiting Central America, the West Indies,
and Southern Europe, and constituting the genus Glandina
of authors. The prettily painted and porcelain-like species
A. virginea and vexillum, are also representatives of another
type, the genus Lignus of De Montford.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PFEIFFERI. Achat. testâ oblongo-turritâ, an-
fractibus octo, convexis, longitudinaliter obscurè plicato-
striatis, apicem versus subtiliter decussatâ, ad suturas
indistinctè crenulatis, columellâ valdè arcuatâ et con-
tortâ, abruptè truncatâ; fulvesceute-albâ, rufo-fusco,
prœcipuè basin versus, ﬂammatâ.

PFEIFFER'S ACHATINA. Shell oblong-turreted, whorls
eight in number, convex, longitudinally obscurely
plicately striated, ﬁnely decussated towards the apex,
indistinctly crenulated at the sutures, columella much
arched and twisted, abruptly truncated; pale fulvous

white, ﬂamed especially towards the base with reddish-
brown.

DUNKER, Zeitschr. fur Malac. 1845. p. 163.

Hab, Near Loanda, West Africa (on sandy mountains).

As in most species of the genus the colouring is darker
and more thickly displayed towards the base.

Species 2. (Mus. Cumiug.)

ACHATINA ÆQUATORIA. Achat. testâ acuminato-oblongâ,
anfractibus septem, tumidis, rotundatis, Iævibus, obliquè
tenuistriatis, ad suturas lirâ parvâ spirali crenulatâ
cinctis, columellâ vix truncatâ, labro simplici; cinereo-
cærulescente, apicem versus albicante, strigis maculisque
fuscis irregulariter aspersâ.

THE EQUATORIAL ACHATINA. Shell acuminately oblong,
whorls seven in number, swollen, rounded, smooth,
obliquely ﬁnely striated, encircled with a small spiral
crenulated ridge at the sutures, columella scarcely
truncated, lip simple; ash-blue, whitish towards the
apex, sprinkled irregularly with brown streaks and
spots.

Hab. Banks of the river Gaboon, West Africa.

The marking of this species, from a locality nearly on the
equator, is very peculiar, not disposed in regular stripes,
but wavy and scattered; the whorls are more than usually
rounded, and the apex has a papillary aspect.

Species 3. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA VARIEGATA. Achat. testâ conico-oblongâ, basin
versus ventricosâ, anfractibus septem ad octo, plus
minus subtiliter decussatis, ad suturas crenulatis, lineâ
impressâ marginatis, columellâ contortâ, obliquè trun-
catâ, labro simplici; fulvo-albidâ, strigis nigro-cas-
taneis undatis, hic illic fulguratis, sœpissimè pictâ, colu-
mellâ vividè roseâ.

THE VARIEGATED ACHATINA. Shell conically oblong,
ventricose towards the base, whorls seven to eight in
number, more or less ﬁnely decussated, crenulated at
the sutures, margined with an impressed line, colu-
mella twisted, obliquely truncated, lip simple; fulvous-
white, most frequently painted with dark waved
chesnut streaks here and there zig-zag, columella
very deep rose.

February, 1849.