ACHATINA.—PLATE I.

ROISSY, Buﬀon de Sonnini, Hist. Moll. p. 354.

Bulla achatina, Linnæus.
Buccinum achatinum, Muller.
Buccinum variegatum, Fabius Columna.
Bulimus achatinus, Bruguière.
Cochlitoma achatina, Férussac.
Achatina perdix, Lamarck.

Hab. Sierra Leone &c., West Africa (in the woods).

This ﬁne large species exists in great abundance in the
woods of West Africa, with little variation except that the
striped painting is sometimes absent, as in Pl. V.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA BICOLOR. Achat. testâ subelongato-turritâ,
anfractibus septem, subirregulariter striatis, ad suturas
indistinctè plicato-crenulatis, columellâ arcuatâ et con-
tortâ, fortiter truncatâ, aperturâ parvâ; intensè pur-
pureo-nigrâ, apicem versus castaneâ, columellâ cœrules-
cente-albâ.

THE TWO-COLOURED ACHATINA. Shell somewhat elon-
gately turreted, whorls seven in number, rather
irregularly striated, indistinctly plicately crenulated
at the sutures, columella arched and twisted, strongly
truncated, aperture small; intense purple-black,
chesnut towards the apex, columella bluish-white.

JAY, Cat. Mus. p. 119.

Achatinella bicolor, Pfeiﬀer.
Achatina adusta, Gould (ﬁde Pfeiﬀer).

Hab. Sandwich Islands.

This shell has not the generic character of Achatinella,
the species of which are more or less polished, and dis-
tinguished by a peculiar screw-like twist of the columella.

Species 5. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA COCHLEA. Achat. testâ elongato-turritâ, an-
fractibus octo, spiraliter costatis, supernè depressis,
infra convexo-planis, basi subangulatis, columellâ pro-
fundè arcuatâ et contortâ; ustulato-castaneâ, zonulâ
albâ infra suturas.

THE SCREW ACHATINA. Shell elongately turreted,
whorls eight in number, spirally ribbed, depressed
round the upper part, convexly ﬂattened beneath,
slightly angled at the base, columella deeply arched
and twisted; burnt chesnut colour, with a narrow
white zone beneath the sutures.

Hab. Peru.

This species is chieﬂy remarkable on account of its
elongated form and spiral ribbed structure, having much
the aspect of a Turritella.