ACHATINA.

PLATE IV.

Species 13. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PRUNUM. Achat. testâ ovatâ, tenui, ventrico-
siusculâ, spirâ apicem versus obtusâ, anfractibus quin-
que, infra suturas appressis, lœviusculis, apicem versus
minutissimè decussatis, columellâ arcuatâ, vix truncatâ;
aureo-lutescente, castaneo latistrigatâ, supernè purpureo-
roseâ.

THE PLUM ACHATINA. Shell ovate, thin, rather ventri-
cose, obtuse towards the apex, whorls ﬁve in number,
appressed beneath the sutures, somewhat smooth,
very minutely decussated towards the apex, columella
arched, but slightly truncated; pale golden-yellow,
broadly streaked with chesnut, purple-rose towards
the upper part.

Hab. West Africa.

A striking species, distinguished by its obtuse growth
and peculiar colouring. The last whorl is of a delicate
golden-yellow, marked with dark chesnut streaks converg-
ing together at the base, whilst the upper whorls are of a
purple-rose, indistinctly spotted at the sutures.

This species may possibly have been taken for the young
of A. marginata, but it is certainly distinct.

Species 14. (Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA MARGINATA. Achat. testâ conico-ovatâ, ven-
tricosâ, anfractibus sex ad septem, lœvibus, apicem
versus minutissimè decussatis, infra suturas peculiariter
marginatis, columellâ subprofundè arcuatâ et contortâ,
lutescente, nigricante-castaneo profusè undulatâ et stri-
gatâ, apice intensè roseo, columellâ nunc albâ, nunc
roseâ, aperturœ fauce cœrulescente-albâ.

THE MARGINED ACHATINA. Shell conically ovate, ven-
tricose, whorls six to seven in number, smooth, very
minutely decussated towards the apex, peculiarly mar-
gined beneath the sutures, columella rather deeply

arched and twisted; yellowish, profusely waved and
streaked with blackish chesnut, apex deep rose, colu-
mella sometimes white, sometimes rose, interior of
the aperture bluish-white.

SWAINSON, Zool. Illus. pl. 30.

Achatina amphora, Jay.

Hab. West Africa.

Mostly very richly marked externally, but not coloured
in the aperture as in the species which follows.

Species 15. (Fig. a, Mus. Cuming; Fig. b, Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA PURPUREA. Achat. testâ ovatâ, solidiusculâ,
anfractibus sex, convexis, infra suturas marginatis et exi-
miè crenulatis, longitudinaliter striatis, apicem versus
decussatis, columellâ subprofundè arcuatâ et contortâ;
cœrulescente-olivaceâ, pallidè fusco rarò strigatâ, apice
rosaceo, columellâ et aperturœ fauce intensè roseis,
interdum nigro-purpureo marginatis.

THE PURPLE ACHATINA. Shell ovate, rather solid,
whorls six in number, convex, margined and delicately
crenulated beneath the sutures, longitudinally stria-
ted, decussated towards the apex, columella somewhat
deeply arched and twisted; bluish-olive, faintly
streaked at distant intervals with pale brown, pink
at the apex, columella and interior of the aperture
deep rose, sometimes edged with black-purple.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. viii. p. 296.

Bulla purpurea, Chemnitz.
Bulimus purpurascens, Bruguiére.

Hab. Cape Palmas, West Africa.

This species may generally be recognised by the deep
rose colouring of the aperture and columella, which, as in
the beautiful specimen ﬁgured from Mr. Dennison's col-
lection, is sometimes edged with very dark purple, ap-
proaching to black.

February, 1849.