ACHATINA.

PLATE II.

Species 6. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PAPYRACEA. Achat. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenui,
anfractibus sex, minutè decussatim granulatis, ad suturas
marginatis, columellâ leviter contortâ, parum truncatâ;
fuscescente, fusco nebulatâ, columellâ interdum sub-
rosaceâ.

THE PAPER ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, thin, whorls
six in number, minutely decussately granulated, mar-
gined at the sutures, columella slightly twisted, but
little truncated; light brown, clouded with darker
brown, columella sometimes pinkish.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc. 1845, p. 74.

Hab. Banks of the river Nun, Africa.

A light semi-transparent shell, of which the interior is
slightly iridescent.

Species 7. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA BALTEATA. Achat. testâ acuminato-oblongâ,
subfusiformi, crassiusculâ, anfractibus octo ad novem,
subplicato-striatis, undique creberrimè minutè granula-
tis, columellâ peculiariter arcuatâ, et contortâ, abruptè
truncatâ; ﬂavescente, fasciis castaneis longitudinalibus
apicem versus tinctâ, fasciâ spirali interruptâ, subin-
distinctâ, medio cingulatis, columellâ et aperturœ fauce
cœrulescente-albâ.

THE BELTED ACHATINA. Shell acuminately oblong,
somewhat fusiform, rather thick, whorls eight to nine
in number, slightly plicately striated, very closely
minutely granulated, columella peculiarly arched and
twisted, abruptly truncated; yellowish, stained
towards the apex with chesnut longitudinal bands,
and encircled round the middle with a rather indis-
tinct interrupted spiral band, columella and interior
of the aperture bluish-white.

Hab. Banks of the river Gambia, Africa.

Very beautifully minutely granulated throughout, and
characterized by a faint spiral band, in a manner which
obtains some speciﬁc importance on account of its singu-
larity.

Species 8. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA FULICA. Achat. testâ fusiformi-oblongâ, sub-
ventricosâ, nunc tenui, nunc crassiusculâ, anfractibus

octo, Iœvibus, apicem versus obscurè granulato-striatis,
ad suturas vix crenulatis, columellâ subcontortâ, an-
gustè truncatâ; lutescente-albâ, fusco profusè latistri-
gatâ et nebulatâ, columellâ et aperturœ fauce albis.

THE SMOKED ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong,
rather ventricose, sometimes thin, sometimes thick,
whorls eight in number, smooth, obscurely granosely
striated towards the apex, but slightly crenulated at
the sutures, columella rather twisted, narrowly trun-
cated; yellowish-wlute, profusely broadly streaked
and clouded with brown, columella and interior of
the aperture bluish-white.

DE FERUSSAC, Hist. Moll. pl. 124 A. f. 1.

Eadem varietates.

Helix borbonica, De Férussac.
Helix zebrina, De Férussac.
Helix Mauritiana, Quoy and Gaimard.
Achatina Couroupa, Lesson.

Hab. Mauritius.

An extremely variable species; in addition to the typical
specimen here ﬁgured it has been necessary to represent
(Pl. III.) a variety of smaller size which is of frequent
occurrence, and one (Pl. XI.) of singular umbilicated
growth. The variety Fig. 8, b. is of rather light structure,
and extremely constant in this peculiarity. MM. Quoy
and Gaimard distinguished it as a separate species with
the name B. Mauritiana, but it is found associated with
the larger kind and diﬀers immaterially in form or sculpture.
This variety is, however, a very characteristic one, and is
found abundantly in some parts of Mauritius. When the
Samarang touched at that island on its return to England,
Sir David Barclay, an eminent collector residing at Port
Louis, presented Sir Edward Belcher with some thirty or
forty of them alive from his garden, scarcely diﬀering from
one another in size or painting.

In the variety ﬁgured at Pl. XI, a very remarkable one,
the shell is pressed down, as it were, and the whorls are
turned in a manner to form a large umbilicus. Specimens
of this variety are not very uncommon, and may be seen in
diﬀerent stages of growth.

Species 9. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA RETICULATA. Achat. testâ elongato-ovatâ,
subfusiformi, crassâ, anfractibus novem, plicato-rugosis,
et striatis, ad suturas concentricè crenatis, columellâ

February, 1849.