ACHATINA.

PLATE VI.

Species 18. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA INDOTATA. Achat. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenui,
ventricosâ, anfractibus septem, infernè lœvibus, supernè
granoso-striatis, columellâ arcuatâ; lutescente-albâ,
strigis latis castaneis fulguratis.

THE UNENDOWED ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, thin,
ventricose, whorls seven in number, smooth round
the lower part, granosely striated round the upper
part, columella arched; yellowish-white, marked with
broad zigzag chesnut-brown streaks.

Hab. West Africa.

This shell, of which I have examined many specimens,
is frequently confounded with A. zebra, from which it
diﬀers constantly in its proportions and the contour of the
columella. The painting, though it assimilates in a re-
markable degree with some varieties of A. zebra, has
nevertheless a peculiarity of character about it.

Species 19. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA STRIATA. Achat. testâ fusiformi-oblongâ, an-
fractibus octo, longitudinaliter conspicuè plicato-striatis,
ad suturas crenulatis, columellâ contortâ, subelongato-
productâ, aperturâ parviusculâ, angustâ: opaco-albâ.

THE STRIATED ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong,
whorls eight in number, longitudinally conspicuously
plicately striated, crenulated at the sutures, columella
twisted, somewhat elongately produced, aperture
rather small, narrow; opake white,

Buccinum striatum, Müller, Term. p. 149.

Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vol. ix. p. 36. pl. 120. f. 1028-9.

Hab. Mexico.

M. Deshayes assigns the A. rosea, De Férussac, and
Dr. Pfeiﬀer the A. Mulleri of the same author, to the old
Buccinum striatum of Müller; the species under consi-
deration seems, however, to agree far better both with
Müller's description and Chemnitz's ﬁgures, excluding
f. 1030, which is A. Mulleri.

It is a shell of rather solid growth, opake snowy white,
with the striæ raised in prominent longitudinal folds.

Species 20. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA ORNATA. Achat. testâ subfusiformi-oblongâ,
ventricosiusculâ, anfractibus octo, longitudinaliter
creberrimè elevato-striatis, ad suturas angustè margina-
tis, columellâ breviusculâ, abruptè truncatâ, aperturâ
parvâ, oblongâ: fulvescente, strigis brevibus fuscis
irregularibus infra suturas obscurè notatâ.

THE ADORNED ACHATINA. Shell somewhat fusiformly
oblong, rather ventricose, whorls eight in number,
longitudinally very closely elevately striated, narrowly
marginated at the sutures, columella rather short,
abruptly truncated, aperture small, oblong; light
fulvous-brown, obscurely marked beneath the sutures
with short, irregular, brown streaks.

PFEIFFER, Zietschr. fur. Malac. 1846. p. 117.

Achatina costulata, Pfeiﬀer (not of Adams).

Hab. New Granada.

Curiously, but obscurely, marked with short scattered
streaks striking out of the sutures.

Species 21. (Mus. Benson.)

ACHATINA KRAUSSI. Achat. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, anfrac-
tibus septem, parum striatis aut decussatis, columellâ
arcuatâ et contortâ; nigricastaneâ, strigis angustis
albidis remotè fulguratis, columellâ et aperturœ fauce
cœruleo-albis.

KRAUSS'S ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, whorls seven
in number, but little striated or decussated, colu-
mella arched and twisted; blackish-chesnut, marked
with distant narrow white zigzag streaks, columella
and interior of the aperture bluish-white.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 55. Conch. Syst. vol. ii.
pl. 179. f. 19.

Hab. Port Natal, Coast of Africa.

Named in honour of Dr. Krauss of Stutgard, whose
researches in South Africa have been productive of a
valuable work on the Mollusca of that district.

February, 1849.