ACHATINA.

PLATE VII.

Species 22. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA MURREA. Achat. testâ pyramidali-conicâ, apice
tumidâ, basi subplanatâ et angulatâ, anfractibus sex,
lævibus, politis, ad suturas minutissimè marginatis, co-
lumellâ vix truncatâ; pallidè luteâ, maculis cæruleo-
viridibus oblongo-quadratis undatis pulcherrimè tessel-
latâ, interdum vividè luteâ, immaculatâ, apice roseo-
incarnatâ.

THE PORCELAIN ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally conical,
swollen at the apex, somewhat ﬂattened and angular
at the base, whorls six in number, smooth, polished,
very minutely marginated at the sutures, columella
slightly truncated; pale yellow, very prettily tessellated
with waved oblong-square blue-green spots, some-
times bright yellow, unspotted, tinged with ﬂesh-pink
at the apex.

Hab.―?

A pretty species, clearly distinct from the A. fasciata.

Species 23. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA ZEBRA. Achat. testâ subelongato-oblongâ, cras-
siusculâ, anfractibus octo, granoso-striatis, granis in
anfractu ultimo evanidis, columellâ subcontortâ; intensè
castaneâ, strigis angustis albis crebrè fulguratâ, aper-
turæ fauce cærulescente-albâ.

THE ZEBRA ACHATINA. Shell elongately oblong, rather
thick, whorls eight in number, granosely striated,
grains disappearing on the last whorl, columella
slightly twisted; very dark chesnut, marked with
close narrow zigzag white streaks, interior of the
aperture bluish-white.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. viii. p. 295.

Buccinum achatiua, pars, Muller.
Bulla zebra, Chemnitz.
Bulimus zebra, Bruguiére.
Cochlitoma zebra, Férussac.

Hab. Caﬀraria, South Africa.

It is curious to observe in this species, that the longitu-
dinal streaks become gradually narrower and more frequent
as the shell increases in growth. For a species commonly
placed with this in collections, in which the stripes are
broader and much fewer in number, and which diﬀers
manifestly in form, see the preceding Plate, Sp. 18.

Species 24. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA CARINATA. Achat. testâ pyramidali-conicâ,
basi plano-angulatâ, anfractibus sex ad septem, plano-
convexis, sub lente minutissimè decussatis, suturis sub-
excavatis, columellâ vix truncatâ; pellucido-albâ, fasciâ
opaco-albâ ad suturas et, in anfractu ultimo, ad angulum.

THE KEELED ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally conical,
ﬂatly angled at the base, whorls six to seven in
number, ﬂatly convex, under the lens very minutely
decussated, sutures somewhat hollowed, columella
scarcely truncated; transparent white, encircled at
the sutures with a band of opake white, continued
round the angle of the last whorl.

PFEIFFER, Symbolæ, vol. iii. p. 90.

Hab.―?

An interesting species, distinguished by its angular
structure and delicate milk-white sutural band.

February, 1849.