ACHATINA.

Plate VIII.

Species 25. (Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA MULLERI. Achat. testâ fusiformi, spirâ elongatâ,
anfractibus octo, longitudinaliter creberrimè plicato-
striatis, ad suturas crenulatis, columellâ subcontortâ,
conspicuè truncatâ; pellucido-fuscescente, strigis cas-
taneis remotis irregularibus pictâ.

MULLER'S ACHATINA. Shell fusiform, spire elongated,
whorls eight in number, longitudinally very closely
plicately striated, crenulated at the sutures, columella
slightly twisted, conspicuously truncated; light
transparent brown, painted with irregular distant
chesnut streaks.

FERUSSAC, Prodrome, p. 50. No. 357.

Achatina dactylus, Broderip.

Hab. Tumaco, West Coast of South America.

Dr. Pfeiﬀer refers this shell to the Buccinum striatum of
Muller, but there is no mention of the characteristic striped
painting in the description of that author; neither is
there any account of the delicate tinge of yellow or rose
colouring which characterizes the species referred to it by
M. Deshayes, namely, the Achatina rosea. There is no
doubt, however, of the shell under consideration being
identical with that ﬁgured by Chemnitz under the head of
B. striatum in Conch. Cab. vol. ix. pl. 120. f. 1030.

Species 26. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA SOWERBYANA. Achat. testâ ovato-fusiformi,
tenuiculâ, subventricosâ, anfractibus sex ad septem,
undique pulcherrimè granoso-decussatis, ad suturas
crenulatis, columellâ valdè arcuatâ, leviter contortâ,
conspicuè truncatâ; diaphano-fuscescente, nitente,
strigis longitudinalibus castaneis angustis frequentibus
irregulariter pictâ.

SOWERBY'S ACHATINA. Shell ovately fusiform, somewhat
thin, rather ventricose, whorls six to seven in
number, everywhere very beautifully granosely decus-
sated, crenulated at the sutures, columella much
arched, slightly twisted, conspicuously truncated;
bright transparent brown, shining, irregularly painted
with frequent narrow chesnut streaks.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846. p. 32.

Hab. Mexico.

A ﬁne large delicately bright transparent species of
the Glandina section of the genus, prettily granulated
throughout.

Species 27. (Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA LIGNARIA. Achat. testâ oblongo-cylindraceâ,
anfractibus octo, granulis oblongis undiquè exsculptis.
ad suturas rudè crenulatis, columellâ abruptè truncatâ,
aperturâ parviusculâ; fuscescente-spadiceâ, strigis
angustis saturatioribus subobscurè et irregulariter no-
tatâ.

THE WOODEN ACHATINA. Shell oblong-cylindrical,
whorls eight in number, sculptured throughout with
oblong granules, rudely crenulated at the sutures,
columella abruptly truncated, aperture rather small;
light brown bay, somewhat obscurely and irregularly
marked with streaks of a darker colour.

Hab.―?

This ﬁne species from the collection of J. Dennison, Esq.,
approaches nearer to A. Sowerbyana than to any hitherto
described.

February, 1849.