ACHATINA.

PLATE IX.

Species 28. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA ALABASTER. Achat. testâ conico-ovatâ, crassi-
usculâ, anfractibus septem, sub lente minutissimè spi-
raliter striatis, suturis subimpressis, columellâ vix
truncatâ, aperturâ parvâ; pellucido-albâ, fasciâ
aurantio-castaneâ medio cingulatâ.

THE ALABASTER ACHATINA. Shell conically ovate,
whorls seven in number, very minutely spirally stri-
ated beneath the lens, sutures slightly impressed,
columella scarcely truncated, aperture small; trans-
parent white, encircled round the middle with an
orange-chestnut band.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 312.

Helix alabaster, Rang.

Hab. Prince's Islands, West Africa.

The bright chestnut band which encircles this species, is
constant in all the examples I have seen.

Fig. 29. (Mus. Cuming.)

For this species see Plate X. Sp. 35, A. fasciata, of
which the shell here ﬁgured (A. crenata, Swainson) is a
variety.

Species 30. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA REEVEANA. Achat. testâ conico-ovatâ, tenui-
culâ, anfractibus septem, sub lente minutissimè spiraliter
striatis, obliquè subtiliter plicato-striatis, ad suturas
concentricè crenulatis, columellâ vix truncatâ, aperturâ
parviusculâ; pellucido-albâ, fasciâ obscurâ luteo-fuscâ
medio cingulatâ.

REEVE'S ACHATINA. Shell conically ovate, rather thin,
whorls seven in number, very minutely spirally stri-
ated beneath the lens, obliquely ﬁnely plicately stri-
ated, concentrically crenulated at the sutures, colu-
mella scarcely truncated, aperture rather small; trans-
parent white, encircled round the middle with an
obscure yellowish-brown band.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Helic. viv. vol. ii. p. 247.

Hab. Banks of the river Gaboon, West Africa.

Distinguished from A. alabaster, to which it is next
allied, by its larger and lighter structure, sutural crenu-
latious, and faint colouring of the band.

Species 31. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA FUSIFORMIS. Achat. testâ fusiformi-oblongâ,
tenui, ventricosâ, anfractibus septem, supernè obscurè
subangulato-productis, longitudinaliter creberrimè sub-
irregulariter plicato-striatis, striis minutis impressis
spiraliter indentatis, ad suturas crispato-marginatis,
columellâ abruptè truncatâ, aperturâ angustâ; strami-
neâ vel fuscescente, eximiè miniatâ, strigis angustis hic
illic saturatè pictâ, intus pallidè rosaceâ.

THE FUSIFORM ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong,
thin, ventricose, whorls seven in number, obscurely
slightly angulated round the upper part, longitudi-
nally very closely but rather irregularly plicately stri-
ated, spirally indented with minute impressed striæ,
crisply margined at the sutures, columella abruptly
truncated, aperture narrow; pale straw-colour, or
brownish, delicately tinged with vermilion, and
painted here and there with narrow streaks of darker
colour, pale rose within.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 75.

Hab. Mountain of Coban, Vera Cruz, Central America.

It is scarcely possible to do justice to the delicate co-
louring and plicated sculpture of this beautiful species,
the inner edge of the lip of which is stained with a peculiar
saturnine vermilion, whilst the entire shell is more or less
tinged with a warm hue of the same, excepting in the
variety represented at Fig. 31. b, which is of a bright silky
straw-colour.

Species 32. (Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA DENNISONI. Achat. testâ fusiformi-ovatâ,
spirâ subacuminatâ, anfractibus sex, subrudè exiliter
plicato-striatis, striis subtilibus impressis decussatis,
apice subpapillari, columellâ arcuatâ et contortâ,
attenuatè truncatâ; fuscescente, fusco apicem versus
variegatâ, anfractu ultimo immaculato, fasciâ pallidâ
obscurâ cingulato, columellâ pallidè rosaceâ, supra
livido-cœrulescente, fusco marginatâ.

DENNISON'S ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly ovate, spire
rather acuminated, whorls six in number, somewhat
rudely faintly plicately striated, decussated with ﬁne
impressed striæ, apex somewhat papillary, columella
arched and twisted, attenuately truncated; pale
brown, variegated towards the apex with darker

March, 1849.