ACHATINA.

Plate X.

Species 34. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PICTA. Achat. testâ conico-ovatâ, spirœ suturis
impressis, anfractibus septem, lœvibus, politis, vel
obliquè tenuissimè striatis, columellâ brevi, vix truncatâ,
aperturâ parvâ, luteâ, maculis castaneis nebulatis, tœniâ
duplicatâ, medio cinctâ, maculis viridibus grandibus hic
illic ornatâ.

THE PAINTED ACHATINA. Shell conically ovate, sutures
of the spire impressed, whorls seven in number,
smooth, polished, or obliquely very ﬁnely striated,
columella short, scarcely truncated, aperture small;
yellow, encircled round the middle with a double ﬁllet
of chestnut clouded spots, and ornamented here and
there with large green blotches.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 56. Conch. Syst. vol. ii.
p. 87. pl. 177. f. 5.

Hab. Island of Cuba.

Very richly painted, but in a diﬀerent style from either
of the following species.

Species 35. (Fig. a, b, c; and Pl. IX. Fig. 29,
Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA FASCIATA. Achat. testâ subpyramidali-ovatâ,
solidiusculâ, anfractibus octo, plano-convexis, lœvibus,
politis, columellâ breviusculâ, callosâ, vix truncatâ,
aperturâ parvâ, labro crenato; albâ, fasciis latis luteis,
maculis viridibus quadrato-oblongis obliquis ornatâ,
lineis viridibus cingulatâ; interdum albâ, viridi lineatâ,
apice roseo.

THE BANDED ACHATINA. Shell somewhat pyramidally
ovate, rather solid, whorls eight in number, ﬂatly
convex, smooth, polished, columella rather short,
callous, scarcely truncated, aperture small, lip cre-
nated; white, ornamented with broad yellow bands
painted with large oblique square-oblong green
blotches, encircled with green lines; sometimes white,
with the green lines only, apex pink.

SWAINSON, Zool. Illus., vol. iii. pl. 162.

Buccinum fasciatum, Muller.
Bulla fasciata, Chemnitz.
Bulimus vexillum, Bruguiére.
Achatina vexillum, Lamarck,

Cochlitoma vexillum, Férussac.
Achatina lineata, Valenciennes.

Varietates.

Achatina crenata, Swainson.
Achatina pallida, Swainson.
Achatina Anais, Lesson.
Bulimus zebra, D'Orbigny.

Hab. Island of Cuba, West Indies.

It will be seen by the accompanying ﬁgures and the one
referred to in the preceding plate, that the painting of this
species is extremely variable; one portion of the colour,
however, the ﬁne green lines which encircle the shell, is
rarely absent, and it is curious to remark that where these
reach the lip, there is a notch corresponding to each line.

Species 36. (Fig. a, b, c, Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA VIRGINEA. Achat. testâ pyramidali-ovatâ, soli-
diusculâ, anfractibus septem ad octo, lœvibus, politis,
columellâ arcuatâ, brevi, truncatâ; aperturâ parvâ;
cœrulescente-albâ, lineis fasciisque angustis miniatis
viridibus et nigris variè cingulatâ, columellâ nunc albâ,
nunc intensè roseâ.

THE VIRGIN ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally ovate,
rather solid, whorls seven to eight in number, smooth,
polished, columella small, short, truncated; aperture
small; bluish-white, variously encircled with ver‐
milion green and black lines and narrow bands, colu‐
mella sometimes white, sometimes deep rose.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshaye’s edit.) vol. viii.
p. 299.

Bulla virginea, Linnæus.

Buccinum virgineum, Muller.
Lignus virgineus, De Montford.
Bulimus virgineus, Bruguiére.
Cochlitoma virginea, Férussac.
Achatina vittata, Swainson.

Hab. Cuba &c., West Indies.

There is little variation in the style of painting of this
well-known species although the colours occasionally diﬀer.
They are mostly very brilliant and the shell has all the
appearance of painted porcelain.

March, 1849.