ACHATINA.

PLATE XI.

Species 29. (Mus. Brit.)

ACHATINA TINCTA. Achat. testâ acuminato-oblongâ, cras-
siusculâ, anfractibus septem ad octo, lœvibus, ad suturas
marginatis, columellâ contortâ, subangustè truncatâ;
ﬂavidâ, castaneo profusè tinctâ, apice purpurascente,
columellâ et aperturœ fauce cœrulescente-albis.

THE STAINED ACHATINA. Shell acuminately oblong,
rather thick, whorls seven to eight in number,
smooth, marginated at the sutures, columella twisted,
rather narrowly truncated; yellow, profusely stained
with chestnut, columella and interior of the aperture
bluish-white.

REEVE, Conch. Syst. vol. ii. pl. 179. f. 18.

Hab.—?

The painting of this shell is very characteristic, and the
outer surface of it is further distinguished by its smooth
porcelain appearance. It is an extremely rare species;
the specimen represented in the ‘Conchologia Systema‐
tica’ is in Mr. Cuming’s collection, and that here ﬁgured
from the British Museum was formerly in the Tankerville
collection, afterwards in that of W. J. Broderip, Esq.

Species 37. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA SEMISCULPTA. Achat. testâ subfusiformi-
oblongâ, anfractibus septem, supernè granato-striatis,
infernè lœvibus, columellâ arcuatâ, subdepresso-trun-
catâ; albidâ, castaneo interruptè fulguratâ.

THE HALF‐SCULPTURED ACHATINA. Shell somewhat
fusiformly oblong, whorls seven in number, granosely
striated round the upper part, smooth round the
lower, columella arched, rather depressly truncated;

whitish, streaked in an interrupted manner with
chestnut.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845. p. 74.

Hab. Benguela, West Africa.

All Mr. Cuming’s examples of this species are distin‐
guished by the same broken interrupted style of painting
with which this is characterized.

Species 38. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA COLUMNA. Achat. testâ elongato-turritâ, an‐
fractibus septem, subrudè granoso-striatis, suturis de-
presso-concavis, columellâ contortâ, callosâ, plicato-
productâ, aperturâ parvâ; ﬂavidâ, castaneo undiquè
fulguratâ, columellâ et aperturœ fauce cœrulescente-
albis.

THE COLUMN ACHATINA. Shell elongately turreted,
whorls seven in number, rather rudely granosely
striated, sutures depressly concave, columella twisted,
callous, produced in the form of a plait, aperture
small; yellow, streaked throughout with narrow
chestnut ﬂames, columella and interior of the aperture
bluish-white.

BRUGUIERE, Encyclopédie Méthodique, vol. i. f. 332.

Buccinum columna, Muller.
Limax ﬂammeus, Martyn.
Helix columna, Chemnitz.

Hab. Prince’s Islands, West Africa.

It is somewhat remarkable that no species has been dis‐
covered to approximate to this. Lamarck, believing it to
be an inhabitant of freshwater, placed it originally in the
genus Lymnœa.

March, 1849.