ACHATINA.—PLATE XIV.

and regarding the columella to be truly plaited, placed
the species among the Mitres in their genus Voluta.

Species 53. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA LATTREI. Achat. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ,
Volvariœformi, spirâ trevi, anfractibus septem, convexo-
planis, lœvibus, cuticulam carneam politam indutis,
columellâ contortâ, lirâ callosâ marginatâ, aperturâ
elongatâ, angustâ; fulvâ, rufo-brunneo longitudina-
liter subremotè strigatâ.

LATTRE’S ACHATINA. Shell cylindrically oblong, Vol-
varia-shaped, spire short, whorls seven in number,
convexly ﬂattened, smooth, covered with a polished
horny cuticle, columella twisted, edged with a callous
ridge, aperture elongated and narrow; fulvous, lon‐
gitudinally rather remotely streaked with red-brown.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc. 1845. p. 138.

Hab. Central America; Lattre.

The shell of this species approaches the form of Volvaria
or Tornatella, though totally unconnected with those
genera; the columella is not, however, plaited, but elevated
at the base into a callous ridge, as in the Achatina columna.
The entire surface of the shell is covered with a perfectly
transparent polished horny cuticle, through which the dark
stripes show with additional lustre.

It is a rare and extremely interesting species, collected
by M. Lattre in Central America, probably in the province
of Vera Cruz, and named by Dr. Pfeiﬀer in honour of that
eminent traveller.

Species 54. (Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA NIGRICANS. Achat. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, soli-
diusculâ, anfractibus septem, convexis, supernè subtiliter
concentricè striatis, deinde lœvibus, cuticulam corneam
politam indutis, columellâ brevi, contortâ, attenuatè
truncatâ, aperturâ oblongâ, labro medio subdilatato;
livido-nigrâ, suturis basique fulvis, strigis fulvis per-
paucis longitudinalibus notatâ.

THE BLACKISH ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, rather
solid, whorls seven in number, convex, ﬁnely concen‐
trically striated round the upper part, then smooth,
covered with a polished horny cuticle, columella short,
twisted, attenuately truncated, aperture oblong, lip
slightly dilated in the middle; livid-black, sutures
and base fulvous, marked with a very few fulvous
streaks.

PFEIFFER, (Glandina,) Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845. p. 75.

Hab. Vera Cruz, Central America; Lattre.

An interesting species, covered with a transparent

cuticle of the same highly glazed character as the pre‐
ceding, from the same locality, more swollen in form, and
of a peculiar dark beetle brown or black.

Species 55. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA VOLUTA. Achat testâ subcylindraceo-oblongâ,
oleaceâ, solidiusculâ, spirâ brevi, anfractibus septem,
subplano-convexis, lœvibus, cuticulam corneam politam
indutis, columellâ brevi, arcuatâ, abruptè truncatâ,
aperturâ elongatâ, angustâ, labro medio subdilatato;
olivaceo-brunnescente, subindistinctè longitudinaliter
strigatâ.

THE VOLUTE ACHATINA. Shell somewhat cylindrically
oblong, olive-shaped, rather solid, spire short, whorls
seven in number, somewhat ﬂatly convex, smooth,
covered with a polished horny cuticle, columella short,
arched, abruptly truncated, aperture elongated, nar‐
row, lip slightly dilated in the middle; light olive-
brown, somewhat indistinctly longitudinally streaked.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 300, note.

Bulla voluta, Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vol. ix. pt. 2. p. 16.
pl. 117. f. 1009, 1010.

Bulimus glans, Bruguière.
Helix (Cochlicopa) glans, Férussac.
Achatina glans, Lamarck.
Polyphemus glans, De Montford.
Glandina glans, Beck.
Glandina olivacea, Schumacher.

Hab. West Indies.

The above species may be regarded as the type of this
shining horn-clad group. Though of rare occurrence, it is
admirably ﬁgured in vol. ix. of the Conchylien Cabinet, pub‐
lished in 1786.

Species 56. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA DOMINICENSIS. Achat. testâ fusiformi-oblongâ,
anfractibus septem, convexis, superne subrotundatis, lon-
gitudinaliter subtilissimè et creberrimè inciso-striatis,
columellâ subcontortâ, labro medio dilatato; fulvo-
aurantiâ, strigis latiusculis intensè castaneis, remotis, e
suturis descendentibus, notatis.

THE ST. DOMINGO ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong,
whorls seven in number, convex, somewhat rounded
at the upper part, longitudinally very ﬁnely and
closely deeply striated, columella rather twisted, lip
dilated in the middle; fulvous-orange, marked with
distant rather broad dark chestnut streaks descending
from the sutures.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 302, note.

Bulla Dominicensis, Gmelin.