ACHATINA.—PLATE XIV.

Helix (Cochlicopa) Dominicensis, Férussac.
Bulimus maculatus, Bruguière.
Achatina fusco-lineata, Lamarck.
Polyphemus Bruguiereus, Bowditch.
Glandina maculata, Beck.

Hab. West Indies.

The varicose peculiarity of growth which characterizes
the A. leucozonias, is developed in a less prominent degree in
this species, the contrast of painting being reversed. The
A. leucozonias, is of a dark chestnut-brown marked with
longitudinal white stripes, in places where the white-
edged lip has been matured after the manner of a varix. In
the present species the shell is of a uniform orange-yellow,
and the periodical maturity of the lip is indicated in its
course of growth, about four to ﬁve times in a whorl, by
a broad chestnut stripe.

Species 57. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PERUVIANA. Achat. testâ fusiformi-oblongâ,
spirœ suturis peculiariter profundè excavatis, anfrac-
tibus subplano-convexis, longitudinaliter creberrimè cos-
tulatis, interstitiis transversim sulcato-striatis, colu‐
mellâ contortâ, et abruptè truncatâ, aperturâ oblongâ;
albâ, ﬂammis undatis longitudinalibus, lineolisque
obliquis rufo-fuscis, conspicuè pictâ.

THE PERUVIAN ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong,
sutures of the spire peculiarly deeply excavated,
whorls rather ﬂatly convex, longitudinally very closely
ﬁnely ribbed, interstices marked transversely with
grooved striæ, columella twisted and abruptly trun‐
cated, aperture oblong; white, conspicuously painted
with red-brown longitudinal ﬂames and oblique lines.

LAMARCK, Anim. s. vert. (Deshayes’ed.) vol. viii. p. 301.

Helix (Cochlicopa) pretiosa, Férussac, Hist. Moll. pl. 135.
f. 4.

Hab. Peru; Dombey (ﬁde Lamarck).

This species belongs apparently to a distinct type, the
chief peculiarity of which resides in the deeply grooved
formation of the sutures. It is of rather solid texture
with somewhat the aspect of a marine shell, ﬁnely ribbed
longitudinally, the ribs turning over the upper edge of the
whorls into the sutural depression. In painting it is richly
marked with red brown stripes, crossed obliquely with
ﬁne lines of the same colour.

Species 58. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA GLABRA. Achat. testâ acuminato-ovatâ, tenui-
culâ, anfractibus septem ad octo, subtilissimè longitudi‐
naliter striatis, glabris, nitidis, columellâ brevi, arcuatâ
et contortâ; fulvescente corneâ, strigis fuscis remotis,
suturis anfractuum medio descendentibus, ornatâ.

THE SMOOTH ACHATINA. Shell acuminately ovate, rather
thin, whorls seven to eight in number, very ﬁnely
longitudinally striated, smooth, shining, columella
short, arched and twisted; light fulvous horn-colour,
ornamented with distant brown streaks, descending
from the sutures to the middle of the whorls.

PFEIFFER, (Glandina) Symbolæ, vol. iii. p. 90.

Hab. Island of Porto Rico.

This species has a smooth glazed appearance, but not
arising from the lustre of a horny cuticle, such as that
which characterizes the A. Lattrei and its congeners.