ACHATINA.—PLATE XV.

Species 64. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA GRIFFITHSII. Achat, testâ subfusiformi, spirâ
acuminatâ, anfractibus novem, creberrimè et subtilissimè
costulato-striatis, ultimo medio impresso, basi expanso,
columellâ contortâ, attenuatè truncatâ; pellucido-albâ,
strigis castaneis sparsis obliquè pictâ.

GRIFFITH’S ACHATINA. Shell somewhat fusiform, spire
acuminated, whorls nine in number, very closely and
ﬁnely sculptured with rib-like striæ, last whorl im‐
pressed in the middle and expanded at the base, colu‐
mella twisted, attenuately truncated; transparent-
white, obliquely painted with scattered chestnut
streaks.

ADAMS, Pro. Boston Nat. Hist. Soc., 1845, p. 14.

Hab. Jamaica.

The compressed growth of the last whorl has very much
the appearance of an accidental distortion.

Species 65. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA RANGIANA. Achat. testâ elongato-turritâ,
crassâ, solidâ, anfractibus undecim, plano-convexis, sub-
tilissimè arcuatim striatis, lineis impressis spiralibus
subdistantibus obscurè notatis, columellâ simplici, callo-
sâ, vix truncatâ, aperturâ parvâ; albido-stramineâ.

RANG’S ACHATINA. Shell elongately turreted, thick,
solid, whorls eleven in number, ﬂatly convex, very
ﬁnely arcuately striated, obscurely marked with
rather distant impressed spiral lines, columella simple,
callous, scarcely truncated, aperture small; whitish
straw-colour.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 115.

Hab. Republic of Mexico; Linden.

A shell of peculiarly solid growth verging on Bulimus,
allied to the elongately turreted group of that genus of
which B. calcareus is the type.

Species 66. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA TORTILLANA. Achat. testâ subfusiformi-
oblongâ, subventricosâ, anfractibus septem, subtilissimè
et creberrimè costulato-striatis, columellâ contortâ et
attenuatè truncatâ; lutescente-corneâ, pellucidâ, quasi
vitreâ.

THE TORTILLA ACHATINA. Shell somewhat fusiformly

oblong, rather ventricose, whorls seven in number,
very ﬁnely and closely rib-like striated, columella
twisted and attenuately truncated; yellowish horny,
transparent, as though glassy.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 32.

Hab. Tortilla, Central America.

The opake blotches and streaks described by Dr. Pfeiﬀer,
appear to be merely accidental in the individual specimen.

Species 67. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA ASSIMILIS. Achat. testâ oblongâ, apice sub-
obtusâ, anfractibus sex, lœvibus, politis, e suturis sub-
tilissimè impresso-striatis, supernè tenuimarginatis,
columellâ breviter reﬂexâ, aperturâ oblongâ; vividè
pellucido-corneâ.

THE ALLIED ACHATINA. Shell oblong, rather obtuse at
the apex, whorls six in number, smooth, polished,
very ﬁnely impressly striated at the sutures, thinly
margined round the upper part, columella shortly
reﬂected, aperture oblong; bright transparent horny.

Hab—?

This approaches very closely to the A. obtusa, Sp. 62,
but is of more transparent texture, whilst the columella is
less abruptly truncated. The shell is composed of a
whorl less in number, and the spire is shorter.

Species 68. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA HUGELI. Achat. testâ pyramidali-oblongâ, an‐
fractibus decem, rotundatis, supernè subtilissimè arcuatim
striatis, ad suturas minutè marginatis, columellâ valdè
arcuatâ et contortâ, aperturâ parvâ; pellucido-albi-
cante, hyalinâ, epidermide tenui corneâ lutescente.

HUGEL’S ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally oblong, whorls
ten in number, rounded, very ﬁnely arcuately stri‐
ated at the upper part, minutely margined at the
sutures, columella much arched and twisted, aperture
small; transparent whitish, hyaline, with a thin
yellowish horny epidermis.

PFEIFFER, Symbolæ, vol. ii. f. 58.

Hab.—?

A neat hyaline species of pyramidal growth, marked with
delicate covered striæ round the upper part of the whorls,
which become fainter as the shell approaches maturity.