ACHATINA.—PLATE XVIII.

aperture rather small; pale ash horn-colour, orna‐
mented with darker stripes.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Helic. viv. vol. ii. p. 258.

Hab. Island of St. John, Porto Rico.

There is a peculiarity of form, as well as of colour,
in this species.

Species 94. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA CURVILABRIS. Achat. testâ fusiformi, spirâ
acuminatâ, anfractibus octo, creberrimè costulato-stria-
tis, ad suturas marginatis, columellâ contortâ, basi sub-
productâ et truncatâ, labro medio impresso; pelluci-
do-corneâ, strigis angustis albidis obscurè notatâ, labii
limbo albido.

THE CURVED-LIP ACHATINA. Shell fusiform, spire acu‐
minated, whorls eight in number, very closely sculp‐
tured with rib-like striæ, margined at the sutures,
columella twisted, somewhat produced and truncated
at the base; transparent horny, obscurely marked
with narrow whitish streaks, edge of the lip whitish.

PFEIFFER, (Glandina,) Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 137.

Hab. Jamaica; Gosse.

Belonging to the group typiﬁed by the A. leucozonias,
the shell is marked in like manner by white streaks depo‐
sited at intervals by the lip after the fashion of varices.

Fig. 95. (Mus. Cuming.)

For description of this species see Bulimus, Pl. LXX.

For Achatina, Sp. 95. see Pl. XXI.

Species 96. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA FUNCKI. Achat. testâ ovato-conicâ, subumbili-
catâ, tenui, anfractibus sex, subrotundatis, striatulis,
nitidis, anfractu ultimo lirâ callosâ, aperturam intran-
te, prope medium munito, columellâ lamellato-truncatâ;
pellucido-albâ, diaphanâ.

FUNCK’S ACHATINA. Shell ovately conical, slightly um-
bilicated, thin, whorls six in number, rather rounded,
very delicately striated, shining, last whorl furnished
about the middle with a callous plait entering the
aperture, columella ﬂatly truncated; transparent
white, diaphanous.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1847, p. 232.

Hab. Province of Merida, New Granada.

A very transparent wax-like shell, intermediate between
Bulimus and Achatina; the columella, although truncated,
is slightly reﬂected back forming a small umbilicus. On
the middle of the body-whorl is a very characteristic
callous ridge, entering the aperture.

Species 97. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA LAMELLATA. Achat. testâ ovato-conicâ, tenui,
subventricosâ, minutè umbilicatâ, anfractibus sex, hic
illic sublamellato-striatis, columellâ subreﬂexâ et trun-
catâ, lirâ parvâ callosâ, obscurâ, prope medium intran-
te, munitâ; pellucido-albâ, diaphanâ.

THE LAMELLATED ACHATINA. Shell ovately conic, thin,
rather ventricose, minutely umbilicated, whorls six in
number, here and there slightly lamellately striated;
columella a little reﬂected and truncated, furnished
with an obscure callous ridge entering near the middle;
transparent white, diaphanous.

POTIEZ and MICHAUD, Gal. de Douai, p. 128. pl. 11.
f. 7 and 8.

Hab. New Lima; Lattre.

This species, it will be seen, diﬀers little from the pre‐
ceding except in being rather more ventricose. The
locality, to judge from analogy, is equally doubtful.

Species 98. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA CONIFERA. Achat. testâ pyramidali-conicâ, an‐
fractibus octo, subangustis, rotundatis, longitudinaliter
obscurè striatis, nitidis, columellâ brevi, arcuatâ, con‐
tortâ, attenuatè truncatâ, aperturâ parvâ; fusco-
corneâ.

THE CONICAL ACHATINA. Shell pyramidally conical,
whorls eight in number, rather narrow, rounded,
longitudinally obscurely striated, shining, columella
short, arched, twisted, attenuately truncated, aperture
small; brown-horny.

FERUSSAC,—?

Hab. Juan Fernandez.

Distinguished by its small aperture and by the elevated
growth of the spire.