ACHATINA.

PLATE XXIII.

Species 125. (Mus. Taylor.)

ACHATINA MARMOREA. Achat. testâ elongato-turritâ, an-
gustâ, subcylindraceâ, solidiusculâ, anfractibus plano-
convexis, obliquè subrudè striatis, columellâ tenuè trun-
catâ, aperturâ parvâ; albâ, epidermide corneâ cas-
taneâ indutâ.

THE MARBLE ACHATINA. Shell elongately turreted,
narrow, somewhat cylindrical, rather solid, whorls
ﬂatly convex, obliquely rather rudely striated, colu‐
mella thinly truncated, aperture small; white, covered
with a chestnut horny epidermis.

Hab.—?

This species resembles the Bulimus calcar in form. It
is of more solid growth, and has the columella distinctly
truncated.

Species 126. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA MUCIDA. Achat. testâ ovatâ, tenui, subven-
tricosâ, anfractibus sex, decussatim subtilisimè granu-
loso-striatis, supernè marginatis, et obscurè crenulatis,
columellâ tenuissimè truncatâ; opaco-albo et pur-
pureo-fusco strigatâ et variegatâ, epidermide tenui
indutâ.

THE MOULDY ACHATINA. Shell ovate, thin, rather ven-
tricose, whorls six in number, decussately very ﬁnely
granulosely striated, marginated round the upper
part, and obscurely crenulated, columella very thinly
truncated; streaked and variegated with opake-
white and purple-brown, covered with a thin epi‐
dermis.

Bulimus mucidus, Gould.

Hab. Liberia, West Africa.

A light, strongly painted shell, of which the colouring
is seen through in the interior.

Species 127. (Fig. Guérin.)

ACHATINA SAULCYDI. Achat. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, ven-
tricosâ, sinistrâ, apice subpapillari, anfractibus con-
vexis, irregulariter rugoso-striatis, ad suturas crenula-
tis, columellâ subexcavatâ et truncatâ; violaceo-griseâ,
nigricante-fusco longitudinaliter lineatâ et strigatâ,
aperturœ fauce ferrugineo-fulvâ.

SAULCYD’S ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, ventricose,
sinistral, somewhat papillary at the apex, whorls
convex, irregularly roughly striated, crenulated at
the sutures, columella slightly excavated and trun‐
cated; violet-grey, longitudinally streaked and linea-
ted with blackish brown, aperture rusty-fulvous.

DE JOANNIS, Guérin’s Mag. de Zool. 1834, Moll. pl. 50.

Hab. Prince’s Island, West Africa.

I have not seen this species, but have ventured to copy
the excellent ﬁgure of it in the work above referred to, on
account of its characteristic appearance. The papillary
type of the apex appears also in Bulimus torridus, from
the neighbouring locality of Liberia.

Species 128. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA GOULDII. Achat. testâ ovato-conicâ, tenui,
ventricosâ, apice subpapillari, anfractibus plano-con-
vexis, obliquè tenuissimè striatis, ad suturas subtiliter
crenulatis, anfractu, ultimo basi leviter angulato; ful-
vescente-olivaceâ, epidermide tenui indutâ, epidermide
secundâ hydrophanâ prope apicem radiatâ et infra
angulum anfractüs ultimi unifasciatâ.

GOULD’S ACHATINA. Shell ovately conical, thin, ventri‐
cose, somewhat papillary at the apex, whorls ﬂatly
convex, obliquely very ﬁnely striated, ﬁnely crenu‐
lated at the sutures, last whorl slightly angled at the
base; fulvous-olive, covered with a thin epidermis,
rayed at the apex with a second hydrophanous epi‐
dermis, and encircled with a single band of the same
beneath the angle of the last whorl.

Bulimus balteatus, Gould.

Hab. Liberia, West Africa.

The name balteatus being already occupied in this
genus, I have the pleasure of naming the species after the
accomplished naturalist to whom I am indebted for it,—
Dr. Gould, of Boston, United States.

Species 129. (Mus. Taylor.)

ACHATINA OBELISCUS. Achat. testâ elongato-turritâ, an-
fractibus novem ad decem, planis, medio subconcavis,
transversim obscurè et irregulariter liratis, anfractu
ultimo basi obtusè angulato, columellâ arcuatâ et

March, 1850.