DOLIUM.

PLATE I.

Genus DOLIUM, Lamarck.

Testa tenuis, globoso-tumida, ventricosissima, transversim
costata, nunquam longitudinaliter exsculpta, aperturâ
amplâ, labro simplici, crenato, rarò ﬁmbriato, labro
columellari latè expanso. Operculum nullum.

Shell thin, globosely swollen, extremely ventricose, trans-
versely ribbed, never longitudinally sculptured, aper‐
ture large, lip simple, crenated, rarely ﬁmbriated,
columellar lip broadly expanded. No operculum.

The Dolia or ‘Tuns’ are mainly distinguished from
other genera of the great family of Purpurifera to which
they belong, by their large globosely inﬂated growth,
transverse ribs, and absence of any sort of longitudinal
sculpture, presenting a singular contrast in this respect
with their allies, the ‘Harps,’ in which ribs only occur in a
longitudinal direction.

As may be gathered from the very light structure and
ample volution of the shell, its animal inhabitant is dis‐
tinguished for its large size and muscular strength, as well
as by its voracity and comparative activity of habit. The
head is furnished with a long retractile proboscis which
the animal is capable of rapidly protruding or withdrawing,
furnished at the extremity with a kind of rosette, as re‐
presented in the beautiful ﬁgure of D. perdix in the Voyage
de l’Astrolabe by MM. Quoy and Gaimard. The disk or
foot of Dolium is large and ﬂeshy and, according to M.
Deshayes, becomes inﬂated with water, when the animal
desires to swim, imbibing the ﬂuid through certain pores
in the skin. The colours of the animal present a brilliant
contrast with those depicted in the shell; the D. perdix is
striped with light azure blue, the D. pomum is also light
blue, and the D. olearium is of a rich coppery green.

The Dolia are partially distributed, although the D. per‐
dix occurs equally on the shores of the Philippine Islands
and in the West Indies. The D. pomum is found also
both in the Philippine and Society Islands. This and
the D. ringens from Peru are of more solid growth than
the rest, and peculiar in having a hollow excavated in the
columella, on which account they have been separated

from the genus by M. Valenciennes under the title of
Malea. The D. galea of the Mediterranean is remarkable
for its large size, but the D. variegatum has been recently
collected at Torres Straits, North Australia, of even more
gigantic proportions.

The shells of this genus, though not much esteemed by
collectors, are by no means common; only fourteen species
are known, and of these, but one new one has resulted
from the researches of Mr. Cuming or Sir E. Belcher.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM GALEA. Dol. testâ maximâ, ventricosissimâ, um-
bilicatâ, spirâ brevi, paululum subsidente, suturis pro‐
fundè impressis, anfractibus septem, supernè tumidis,
transversim costatis, costis convexis, confertis, superi-
oribus lirâ sœpissimè interveniente, columellâ subcon-
tortâ; albidâ aut pallidè fulvâ, apice nigricante, labro
columellari albâ, labro intus fusco tincto.

THE HELMET TUN. Shell very large, extremely ven‐
tricose, umbilicated, spire short, a little sunk in,
sutures deeply impressed, whorls seven in number,
swollen round the upper part, transversely ribbed,
ribs convex, close-set, upper ones with most frequently
an intervening ridge, columella somewhat twisted;
whitish or pale fulvous colour, apex blackish, colu-
mellar lip white, lip stained within with brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 139.

Buccinum galea, Linnæus.
An eadem var.?
Dolium ampullaceum, Philippi.
Testa juvenis.
Dolium tenue, Menke.

Hab. Mediterranean.

The above recorded synonymes of this well-known species
have arisen out of the circumstance of its having a more
oblong form in an early stage of growth, and an occasional
irregularity in the development of the ribs.

December, 1848.