DOLIUM.

PLATE II.

Species 2. (Mus. Brit.)

DOLIUM MELANOSTOMA. Dol. testâ subgloboso-turbinatâ,
umbilicatâ, ventricosissimâ, spirâ subprominulâ, anfrac-
tibus septem, transversim costatis, costis subdepresso-
convexis, interstitiis lirâ parvâ subsidente undique
impletis, columellâ latè expansâ, aperturâ amplâ, basi
subprofundè emarginatâ; lutescente-albidâ, lœvigatâ,
nitente, columellâ intensè nigricante-brunneâ.

THE BLACK-MOUTH TUN. Shell somewhat globosely
turbinated, umbilicated, very ventricose, spire rather
prominent, whorls seven in number, transversely
ribbed, ribs somewhat depressly convex, interstices
ﬁlled throughout with a small ridge, columella widely
expanded, aperture large, rather deeply emarginated
at the base; yellowish white, smooth, shining, colu‐
mella deep blackish brown.

JAY, Cat. Mus. p. 124. pl. 8–9.

Hab. Friendly Islands; Jay.

The shell here represented, from the British Museum,

belonged to the late Earl of Tankerville, and is the indi‐
vidual specimen noted by Mr. Sowerby in his well-known
Catalogue of that nobleman’s collection, as Dolium galea
var. d. I believe it to be distinct from that species, which
is an inhabitant of the Mediterranean, and to be identical
with a shell from the Friendly Islands in the collection of
Dr. Jay of New York, described by that gentleman, under
the name above recorded, in his published ‘Catalogue’ of
1839. “This splendid shell,” says Dr. Jay, “was brought
to Nantucket by a whaler from the Friendly Islands,
where it was obtained by the natives in diving for shells.”

The D. melanostoma is chieﬂy distinguished from the
D. galea in having a more prominent spire and a regularly
developed ridge throughout the interstices between the
ribs, which have a lighter and more polished surface.
The base of the shell beneath the umbilicus is characterized
by its numerous concentric striæ, whilst in the D. galea it
is ridged in a longitudinal direction; and the rich dark
colouring of the columellar lip appears also to be a cha‐
racter of the species.

December, 1848.