DOLIUM.

PLATE VI.

Species 9. (Mus. Brit.)

DOLIUM PERDIX. Dol. testâ ovato-oblongâ, tenui, inﬂatâ,
basin versus obliquè eﬀusâ, umbilicatâ, spirâ subexsertâ,
anfractibus sex, transversim sulcatis et costatis, costis
ad viginti, contiguis, plano-convexis, vix elevatis, colu‐
mellâ arcuatâ, labro simplici; fulvo-brunneâ aut
rufescente-spadiceâ, maculis lunatis albis plus minusve
frequentibus, notatâ, aperturæ fauce cærulescente-albâ,
aut brunnescente.

THE PARTRIDGE TUN. Shell ovately oblong, thin, in‐
ﬂated, obliquely eﬀused towards the base, umbilicated,
spire somewhat exserted, whorls six in number, trans‐
versely grooved and ribbed, ribs about twenty in
number, contiguous, ﬂatly convex, scarcely raised,
columella arched, lip simple; fulvous brown or light
reddish bay, marked, more or less plentifully, with
white lunate spots, interior of the aperture bluish-
white or brownish.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 144.

Buccinum perdix, Linnæus.

Eadem var. Dolium plumatum, Green.

Hab. Eastern, Western, and Paciﬁc Oceans.

It is not often that in genera so limited in kind as the
present, a species occurs with so wide a range of habita‐
tion as the Dolium perdix. Inhabiting both hemispheres,
it diﬀers in the ribs being more or less elevated, but in no
feature, suﬃciently, to allow of its being made the subject
of another species, as introduced by Dr. Jacob Green in
the Transactions of the Albany Institute.

The D. perdix, it may be observed, is modelled on a
diﬀerent type from the rest of the genus, the spire being
more elevated and the aperture more obliquely eﬀused.

Species 10. (Mus. Rolfe.)

DOLIUM CHINENSE. Dol. testâ ovato-globosâ, tenuissimâ,
ventricosâ, basi subtruncatâ, vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus
sex, transversim multicostatis, costis tenuibus depres-
siusculis, lirâ parvâ interveniente, columellâ contortâ,
labro simplici; albido fulvoque alternatim zonatâ,
zonis albidis rufo-fusco maculatis, aperturæ fauce pal-
lidè aurantio tinctâ.

THE CHINA TUN. Shell ovately globose, very thin, ven-
tricose, somewhat truncated at the base, scarcely
umbilicated, whorls six in number, transversely
many-ribbed, ribs rather depressed, with a small
ridge running between them, columella twisted, lip
simple; painted alternately with fulvous and white
zones, white zones spotted with red-brown, interior
of the aperture faintly tinged with orange.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 146.

Buccinum Australe seu Chinense, Chemnitz.
Dolium variegatum, Philippi (not of Lamarck).

Hab. China Seas.

If Dr. Philippi had proclaimed the D. Chinense and
variegatum to be one and the same species in diﬀerent
states, instead of assigning the shell under consideration
to the Lamarckian species, and distinguishing that from
Torres Straits by a new name, his opinion would have
been less open to objection; for the characters of the New
Holland specimens are so truly represented in this, under
certain modiﬁcations, that they might almost be regarded
as local varieties. They agree even in colour and pattern,
and the only diﬀerence between them consists in the
D. Chinense being of much smaller and lighter structure,
of more contracted growth, and more numerously and
ﬁnely ribbed.

January, 1849.