DOLIUM.

PLATE V.

Species 7. (Fig. a, Mus. Brit. Fig. b, Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM VARIEGATUM. Dol. testâ ovato-globosâ, interdum
maximâ, umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, transversim
costatis, costis sedecim ad septemdecim, subprominulis,
interstitiis excavatis, superioribus lirâ parvâ interveni-
ente; albidâ, fulvo-rufescente tinctâ, costis aliis rufo-
fusco maculatis, aliis immaculatis, aperturæ fauce
plus minus intensè aurantiâ.

THE VARIEGATED TUN. Shell ovately globose, sometimes
very large, umbilicated, whorls seven in number,
transversely ribbed, ribs from sixteen to seventeen in
number, rather prominent, interstices hollowed, upper
ones with a small intervening ridge; whitish, stained
with fulvous red, some ribs spotted with reddish-
brown, some unspotted, interior of the aperture more
or less deeply stained with orange.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 143.

Dolium Kieneri, Philippi.

Hab. North Coast of New Holland; Jukes.

There is little doubt of this species being the true
D. variegatum of Lamarck, who notiﬁes the locality
New Holland, from whence a magniﬁcent series may be
seen in the British Museum, including specimens even
larger than any to be found of the D. galea. They were
collected by Mr. Jukes during his recent expedition to
that country, and are from Torres Straits.

The D. Chinense, which Dr. Philippi refers to Lamarck’s
D. variegatum, is no doubt the Chinese analogue of this
species; its plan of growth and style of colouring are the

same, and it diﬀers only in being more globose and of
lighter structure; still it is not Lamarck’s type, and when
named by Chemnitz Buccinum Australe seu Chinense, he
may have had specimens from both localities before him.

Species 8. (Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM COSTATUM. Dol. testâ ovato-oblongâ, ventricosâ,
vix umbilicatâ, anfractibus septem, supernè plano-
depressis, subcanaliculatis, transversim costatis, costis
tredecim ad quatuordecim, prominulis, distantibus,
interstitiis latis, concavis, lævibus; aperturâ oblongâ,
labro ﬁmbriato et dentato; cæruleo-albicante, costis
fulvo-fuscescentibus, apicem versus obscurè maculatis,
apice nigricante.

THE RIBBED TUN. Shell ovately oblong, ventricose,
scarcely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, ﬂatly
depressed and slightly channelled round the upper
part, transversely ribbed, ribs thirteen to fourteen in
number, rather prominent, distant, interstices broad,
concave, smooth; aperture oblong, lip ﬁmbriated and
toothed; bluish-white, ribs light fulvous brown, and
obscurely spotted towards the apex, which is blackish.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 144.

Dolium fasciatum, var., Kiener.

Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

This bold species is amply distinguished from the
D. fasciatum, by the prominent and remote development
of the ribs, and absence of banded colouring.

January, 1849.