DOLIUM.

PLATE VII.

Species 11. (Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM FASCIATUM. Dol. testâ ovato-ventricosâ, vix
umbilicatâ, spirâ canaliculatâ, anfractibus sex ad
septem, transversim costatis, costis sedecim ad septem-
decim, plano-convexis, lœvibus, interstitiâ supremâ lati-
usculâ, columellâ subcontortâ, labro reﬂexo, ﬁmbriato-
dentato; albâ, fasciis quatuor latiusculis aurantio-
fuscis, pone labrum evanidis, cingulatâ, apice cœruleo-
nigricante.

THE BANDED TUN. Shell ovately ventricose, scarcely
umbilicated, channelled at the spire, whorls six to
seven in number, transversely ribbed, ribs sixteen to
seventeen, ﬂatly convex, smooth, uppermost interstice
rather wide, columella a little twisted, lip reﬂected,
ﬁmbriately toothed; white, encircled with four rather
broad orange-brown bands, fading behind the lip,
apex blue-black.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 142.
Buccinum fasciatum, Bruguière.

Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

The orange-brown bands which encircle this shell con‐
stitute a marked character of the species, whilst the manner
in which they gradually fade away before reaching the lip,
neatly illustrates a peculiarity which may be observed
throughout the species, of a certain deﬁciency of pattern
towards the completion of the shell. Before arriving at
maturity, the animal appears to lose its powers of design
in the display of ornamental colouring, and it not unfre‐
quently happens, that after any sudden accident or concus‐
sion, suﬃcient to cause a sea-break, the shell is completed
in a coarse rugged manner, with little indication of the
design and variety of colouring which has characterized
its previous growth.

It is hardly necessary to draw a comparison between
this species and the D. costatum, confounded with it by
M. Kiener, for the ribs in that species are very prominent,

and widely separated, whilst in the D. fasciatum they
are very depressed and almost contiguous; the bands,
moreover, wanting in D. costatum, are not to be lightly
regarded.

Species 12. (Fig. a, Mus. Hanley; Fig. b, Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM ZONATUM. Dol. testâ globoso-ovatâ, tenuiculâ,
vix umbilicatâ, spirœ suturis canaliculatis, anfractibus
sex, transversim costatis, costis depresso-convexis, qua-
tuordecim ad sedecim, subdistantibus, lirâ tenui, supernè
duabus tribusve, interveniente; columellâ tortuosâ, labro
simplici aut subtiliter crenulato; castaneo-rufescente,
concolori, anfractuum parte supremâ albidâ, apice
nigricante.

THE ZONED TUN. Shell globosely ovate, rather thin,
scarcely umbilicated, sutures of the spire channelled,
whorls six in number, transversely ribbed, ribs de-
pressly convex, fourteen to sixteen in number, rather
distant, with a ﬁne ridge, two or three towards the
upper part, running between them; columella
twisted, lip simple or ﬁnely crenulated; chesnut-red,
of one uniform colour, uppermost portion of the
whorls whitish, apex blackish.

GREEN, Transactions of the Albany Institute, vol. i. part 1.
p. 131.
Dolium crenulatum, Philippi.

Hab. China.

This is the only species of the genus in which there is
an isolated raised line between the interstices of the lower
ribs of the shell; the D. galea has an elevated line between
the upper ribs in an early stage of growth, but in this
portion of the shell of D. zonatum, there are three. It is
accurately described and ﬁgured by Dr. Jacob Green of
the United States in the volume above referred to, and a
magniﬁcent specimen has been recently described and
ﬁgured by Dr. Philippi in the third volume of his ‘Abbil-
dungen’ as a new species with the name above recorded.

January, 1849.