CASSIS.—PLATE I.

Species 2. (Mus. Brit.)

CASSIS CORNUTA. Cass. testâ maximâ, ovatâ, ventricosâ,
spirâ depressâ, apice acutâ; anfractibus univaricosis,
supernè angulatis, fortiter tuberculatis, tuberculis erecto-
conicis, infra cingulis duobus callosis obsoletè tubercu-
latis, tuberculis œtate crescentibus, cingulorum inter-
stitiis scrobiculis parvis, hexagonis, nunc, regularibus,
nunc irregularibus, creberrimè reticulatis; columellâ
concavo-depressâ, labroque externo rudè et fortiter
rugatis, labris plus minusve plano-expansis et supernè
junctis; lacteâ, ferrugineo-rufescente hic illic pallidè
tinctâ, varicibus cingulisque fusco grandimaculatis,
columellâ et aperturâ fulvo-citrinis, rugis albicantibus,
scrobiculis sub encaustum peculiariter opaco-albis.

THE HORNED HELMET. Shell very large, ovate, ventri-
cose, spire depressed, sharp at the apex; whorls one-
varicose, angulated round the upper part, strongly
tubercled, tubercles erectly conical, two callous ob-
soletely tubercled belts beneath, the tubercles in‐
creasing with age, interstices between the belts
closely reticulated with small hexagonal pits, some‐
times regular, sometimes irregular; columella con-
cavely depressed, and, with the outer lip, rudely and
strongly wrinkled, lips more or less ﬂatly expanded,
joined at the upper part: cream-coloured, palely
tinged here and there with rusty red, varices and
belts stained with large brown blotches, columella
and aperture fulvous citron, wrinkles whitish, pits
beneath the enamel peculiarly opake-white.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 20.

Buccinum cornutum, Linnæus.
Cassidea cornuta, Bruguière.
Eadem, Cassis labiata, Chemnitz.

Hab. Moluccas, West Indies, Paciﬁc Islands.

This ﬁne species, the largest of the genus, grows to an
immense size, yet examples are not unfrequently met
with, of comparatively small dimensions, bearing all the
characters of the adult shell, except in having little indi‐
cation of tubercles on the two central callous belts. The
interstices between these, and other parts of the surface,
are distinguished in all stages of growth by a beautiful
honey-combed structure, consisting of a number of hexa‐

gonal cells, which in that part of the body-whorl overlaid
by the columellar lip, become ﬁlled up with opake-white
matter. The tubercles along the upper angle of the
whorls are always very prominent, and sometimes rather
compressed.

The C. cornuta assumes two very distinct varieties of
form: one extremely broad and ventricose at the base of
the spire, attaining rather the larger size; the other of a
more oblong form, in which the lip is more widely ex-
paned into a ﬂattened plane. It is the latter variety of
which Chemnitz has given two admirable ﬁgures in the
Conchylien Cabinet, vol. ix. pl. 184 and 185, under the
name Cassis labiata.

Species 3. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS SEMIGRANOSA. Cass. testâ ovatâ, basi contractâ,
spirâ acuminatâ, apice subpapillari, anfractibus evari-
cosis, rotundatis, lœvibus, basi striatis, supernè gra-
norum seriebus quinque vel sex conspicuè cingulatis,
granis sub plicas descendentes; columellâ tenuiplicatâ,
basi truncatâ, labro reﬂxo, lœvigato; albidâ, fulvo-
ferrugineo plus minusve tinctâ.

THE HALF‐GRAINED CASSIS. Shell ovate, contracted at
the base, spire acuminated, somewhat papillary at
the apex; whorls destitute of varices, rounded,
smooth, striated at the base, encircled round the
upper part with ﬁve or six conspicuous rows of
grains, which are upon descending folds; columella
ﬁnely plicated, truncated at the base, lip reﬂected,
smooth; whitish, more or less stained with fulvous
rust colour.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p.37.

Hab. Van Dieman’s Land.

The rows of grains which are ranged along the summit
of the descending folds round the upper portion of the
whorls are extremely characteristic, the columella is pecu‐
liarly short and truncated, and the smoothness of the
outer lip is an unusual feature. The shell is usually
stained with a kind of fulvous rust colour, whilst the
apex is of ivory whiteness with a somewhat papillary
aspect.