CASSIS.

PLATE II.

Species 4. (Fig. a, b, c, d, Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS DECUSSATA. Cass. testâ ovatâ, compressiusculâ,
spirâ subacuminatâ, apice acutâ; anfractibus univari-
cosis, striis elevatiusculis longitudinalibus, incisisque
transversis undique decussatis, prœcipuè ad spiram;
varicibus supernè peculiariter bi-tri-dentato-spinosis,
columellâ fortiter plicato-rugatâ; livido-cœrulescente,
maculis quadratis vel strigis fulvis longitudinaliter
undatâ, maculis strigisve super varices et aperturœ
fauce intensè castaneo-ruﬁs.

THE DECUSSATED HELMET. Shell ovate, rather com‑
pressed, spire somewhat acuminated, sharp at the
apex; whorls one-varicose, decussated throughout
with rather elevated longitudinal and engraved trans‑
verse striæ, especially on the spire; varices peculiarly
two-three-dentately spinous at the upper part; colu‑
mella strongly plicately wrinkled; livid blue, longitu‑
dinally waved with fulvous streaks or square spots,
interior of the aperture and spots or streaks upon the
varices deep chesnut-red.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 29.

Buccinum decussatum, Linnæus.
Cassidea decussata, Bruguière,

Hab.—?

In this species the striped and tessellated designs of
painting which charaterize the C. areola and undata are
united, the varieties being unaccompanied by any dif‑
ference of form or sculpture. The chief peculiarity in the
sculpture of C. decussata, the same in both varieties, con‑
sists in the longitudinal striæ being raised, whilst the trans‑
verse striæ are engraved; in other words, the former are
ridges, the latter grooves. Another feature to be remarked
is that the varices, including that which forms the reﬂected
margin of the aperture, are armed at the summit, next
the spire, with two or three dentate spines which in all
other species, where they occur, are at the base.

M. Deshayes remarks in a note on C. decussata (Anim.
sans vert. vol. x. p. 9.) that Lamarck in referring to

Martini’s ﬁgures (Conch. Cab. vol. 2. f. 360–1, and 367–
8.) has confounded a young specimen of his C. zebra (C.
undata) with it. This is a mistake: Lamarck was perfectly
correct, and so was Martini, who, although he describes
each of these shells separately, refers them both to the Buc‑
cinum decussatum of Linnæus. They represent truly the
species in diﬀerent states, and perhaps the most extreme.

Species 5. (Mus. Brit.)

CASSIS MADAGASCARIENSIS. Cass. testâ sub-trigono-
ovatâ, ventricosâ, elevato-rotundatâ, anfractibus longi‑
tudinaliter subirregulariter striatis, transversim super-
ﬁcialiter sulcatis, triseriatim tuberculatis, tuberculis
supremis grandibus, prominentibus; columellâ profusè
plicato-rugatis, rugis hic illic bifurcatis, labro latissimè
expanso, marginibus conjunctis, labro externo intus con-
spicuè dentato; cœruleo-albicante, facie encausticâ ru-
fescente-incarnatâ, dentibus rugisque albis, interstitiis
intensè purpureo-castaneis.

THE MADAGASCAR HELMET. Shell somewhat triangu‑
larly ovate, ventricose, elevately rotundate, whorls
longitudinally somewhat irregularly striated, trans‑
versely superﬁcially grooved, encircled with three
rows of tubercles, of which the uppermost are large
and prominent; columella profusely plicately wrinkled,
wrinkles here and there bifurcated, lip very widely
expanded, margins joined, outer lip conspicuously
toothed within; bluish white, enamelled face reddish
ﬂesh-coloured, teeth and wrinkles white, interstices
intense purple-chesnut.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 20.

Hab. Madagascar.

This ﬁne species may be recognised by the delicate ﬂesh
tint of its enamelled face and deep purple-chesnut colouring
of the lip and columella; it attains almost as large a size
as the C. cornutus. In sculpture it diﬀers from that species
in having the surface transversely rather superﬁcially
grooved, not cancellated.

August, 1848.