CASSIS.

PLATE I.

Genus CASSIS, Lamarck.

Testa ovata vel trigono-ovata, ad basin canali recurvo ascen-
dente terminata, spirâ brevi, anfractibus interdum vari-
cosis, anfractu ultimo valdè maximo, inﬂato; colu‐
mellâ sœpissimè plicato-rugatâ vel granosâ et plerumque
latè expansâ, aperturâ elongatâ plus minusve angustâ,
labro incrassato, dentato.

Shell ovate or triangularly ovate, terminating at the base
with a recurved ascending canal, spire short, whorls
sometimes varicose, last whorl very large, inﬂated;
columella most frequently plicately wrinkled or
grained, and generally widely expanded, aperture
elongated, more or less narrow, lip thickened, toothed.

The Cassides, or Helmets, are a strong, muscular, but
inactive group of mollusks, whose shell is mainly distin‐
guished by its solid or inﬂated growth and short spire,
and by an abruptly ascending recurved canal, through
which the siphon conveying the water to the breathing
organs passes, and is of more than ordinary dimensions.
The head is stout and ﬂeshy, prolonged into the tentacles
after the manner of Purpura and Buccinum, the eyes
being situated on the outer surface, near the base; M.
Deshayes has, however, observed that in the C. sulcosa of
the Mediterranean they are elevated on a short pedicle.

The calcifying functions of the Cassides are somewhat
vigorously exercised, some of the shells being of large
size and often of extremely solid growth; the mantle
which lines the interior of the shell, extends in ample
folds about the aperture, and is freely occupied in the
secretion of that rich display of enamel which, through
being deposited in layers of diﬀerent tints, aﬀords so
beautiful a material for the engraving of Cameos. The C.
Madagascariensis, on account of its ﬁnely expanded lip and
purity of colour, is particularly adapted for this singular
art of gem-engraving, practised by the ancients; and the
well-known ‘Bull’s Mouth,’ C. rufa, is also much used.
The operculum of Cassis is very peculiar; it is of a
horny composition, of an elongated crescent form, crenu-
lated along the edge, and rayed with deep striæ.

We have no representative of this genus on our own
coast, and only one species, C. sulcosa, ranges so far north
as the Mediterranean. According to the observations of
M. Deshayes, it lives upon the juices of diﬀerent Bivalves,
whose shells it penetrates with its proboscis, like the
Murices.

The chief localities noticed in the following monograph
are China, the Molucca and Philippine Islands, Algoa
Bay and the islands of the Paciﬁc, the West Indies, New
Holland, and New Zealand. It should be observed, how‐
ever, that the species are but sparingly distributed, and
very few new ones have been collected during the last
few years, amongst the vast numbers that have been
discovered of other genera. The shells present a lively
display of colours, and, from their singular plan of growth,
constitute a very characteristic type in the great series of
Gastropods.

Species 1. (Fig. a, b, c, Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS TORQUATA. Cass. testâ ovatâ, spirâ subacuminatâ,
anfractibus evaricosis, convexis, lœvibus, columellâ basi
uniplicatâ, labro quinque- vel sex-spinoso; fulvescente-
lacteâ, anfractibus maculis quadratis intensè castaneis
equidistantibus supernè et infernè uniseriatim pictis,
labro castaneo maculato.

THE ENCHAINED HELMET. Shell ovate, spire somewhat
acuminated, whorls destitute of varices, convex,
smooth, columella one-plaited at the base, lip ﬁve-
or six-spinose; fulvous cream-colour, whorls painted
round the upper and lower parts with a row of equi‐
distant, square, dark chesnut spots, lip spotted with
chesnut.

Variety β. (Fig. 1. c.)

Testa incrassata, anfractibus supernè nodoso-tuberculatis.

Shell thickened, with the whorls nodosely tubercled round
the upper part.

Hab. New Holland.

This species, of which four excellent ﬁgures were pub‐
lished in 1773 by Martini (Conch. Cab. vol. ii. pl. 38.
f. 383 to 386), has been confounded hitherto with that
commonly known to collectors under its two-fold aspect
of C. vibex and erinaceus. It is uniformly of smaller size
and eminently distinguished by its style of painting, the
pattern of which does not consist of longitudinal ﬂames
or dot-lines, but of two conspicuous chains of square
chesnut spots, one encircling the whorls immediately
beneath the sutures, the other at the base; the large
intermediate surface being clear and unspotted, beyond
three faint indications of bands.

August, 1848.