CASSIS.

PLATE V.

Species 11. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS SABURON. Cass. testâ ovatâ, ventricosâ, spirâ
breviusculâ, apice subpapillari; anfractibus evaricosis
rotundatis, transversim undique creberrimè sulcatis,
margine superiori crenulatis; columellâ callosâ, rugis
brevibus perpaucis obliquis, labro subirregulariter den-
tato-lirato; pallidè cinereâ out fulvescente, obscurè
quinquefasciatâ, fasciis indistinctè quadrato-maculatis,
maculis ponè varices intensè rufo-castaneis.

THE SABURON HELMET. Shell ovate, ventricose, spire
rather short, apex slightly papillary; whorls destitute
of varices, rounded, transversely very closely grooved
throughout, crenulated at the upper margin; colu‐
mella callous, with a very few short oblique wrinkles,
lip somewhat irregularly dentately ridged ; pale ash
or light fulvous colour, obscurely ﬁve-banded, bands
indistinctly square-spotted, spots behind the varices
dark reddish chesnut.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 36.

Le Saburon, Adanson.
Cassidea Saburon, Bruguière.
Buccinum Saburon, Dillwyn.
Eadem. Cassis pomum, Schubert and Wagner.

Hab. Japan (on the sands); Dr. Siebold.

Mainly distinguished by its close transverse grooves
and rounded form; the spots are often much obscured,
excepting behind the marginal varix, where in comparison
they are unusually dark.

Martini has a very excellent ﬁgure of this species (Conch.
Cab. vol. 2. pl. 34. f. 350) referred to by Lamarck under
the head of C. granulosa (C. inﬂatum), and the ﬁgure in
a vignette, f. 1–2 at p. 10, of the same work to which
M. Deshayes refers for C. Saburon, appears to correspond
with one not hitherto described, which I propose to dis‐
tinguish by the name C. pila.

Species 12. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS FLAMMEA. Cass, testâ oblongo-ovatâ, vix trigonâ,
spirâ breviusculâ, apice acutâ; anfractibus univaricosis,
longitudinaliter tenuiter plicato-rugatis, rugis medium
versus œtate obsoletis, anfractuum parte superiori vix
angulatis, tuberculorum seriebus tribus aut pluribus
armatis, tuberculis lateraliter compressis, labrum versus
obsoletioribus; columellâ concaviusculâ, rudè rugatâ,
labro externo fortiter dentato; lacteâ, dorso griseo-
cœrulescente nebulosâ, castaneo longitudinaliter ﬂam-
matâ, varicibus maculis grandibus nigris tinctis.

THE FLAMED CASSIS. Shell oblong-ovate, scarcely tri‐
angular, spire rather short, sharp at the apex; whorls
one-varicose, longitudinally finely plicately wrinkled,
the wrinkles becoming obsolete towards the middle
with age, upper part of the whorls but slightly angu-
lated, armed with three or more rows of tubercles,
which are laterally compressed and more obsolete
towards the lip; columella rather concave, rudely
wrinkled, outer lip strongly toothed; cream-coloured,
clouded at the back with greyish blue, longitudinally
ﬂamed with chesnut, varices stained with large black
blotches.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 22.

Buccinum ﬂammeum, Linnæus.
Cassidea ﬂammea, Bruguière.

Hab.—?

The peculiar oblong oval form of this species, which
is of constant occurrence, fully distinguishes it from C.
tuberosa, of which M. Kiener intimates his opinion that
it is a variety. There is moreover a uniform variation
in the sculpture, which, in the species under consideration,
rather assumes the nature of plicated wrinkles; the tu‐
bercles are more numerous, smaller, and more compressed.

August, 1848.