CASSIS.

PLATE IV.

Species 9. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS SPINOSA. Cass. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, tenuiculâ,
ventricosâ, basi attenuatâ, spirâ depresso-convexâ, apice
acutâ, anfractibus univaricosis, transversim obsoletè sul‑
catis, spirâ basique longitudinaliter tenuiplicatis, su-
pernè nodulorum seriebus tribus, quarum superiore
minutâ moniliformi, cingulatis, columellâ concavâ, pli-
cato-rugatâ, rugis brevibus irregularibus, labro externo
rudè dentato, serie nodulorum; lacteâ, fulvo-spadiceo
pallidè tinctâ, fasciis quinque aut pluribus, maculis
semilunaribus saturatioribus albo articulatis, cingulatâ.

THE SPINOUS CASSIS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather thin,
ventricose, attenuated at the base, spire depressly
convex, sharp at the apex, whorls one-varicose,
transversely obsoletely grooved, longitudinally ﬁnely
plicated on the spire and at the base, encircled with
three rows of nodules round the upper part of which
the uppermost row is minute and necklace-like; co‑
lumella concave, plicately wrinkled, wrinkles short
and irregular, outer lip rudely dentated, with the
addition of a row of nodules; cream-coloured, palely
stained with fulvous bay, and encircled by four or
more bands of semilunar darker bay spots articulated
with white.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 23, note.

Buccinum spinosum, Gronovius, Zooph. p. 302. pl. 10. f. 9.

Buccinum Rumphii, Gmelin,
Buccinum tessellatum, Gmelin.
Buccinum maculosum, Gmelin.
Cassidea fasciata, Bruguière.
Cassis fasciata, Lamarck.

Hab. Australia.

There are three peculiarities of character in this species
which distinguish it in an eminent degree from any other.
The ﬁrst consists of a necklace-like row of small spinous
nodules just within the base of the spire; the second
feature of interest is the dorsal bands of articulated semilu-
nar spots, which are presented in all stages of growth; and
the third is that of a row of spinous nodules upon the
ﬂattened surface of the outer lip. In form the C. spinosa
has some general resemblance with the C. ﬂammea, but it
is a shell of much lighter growth and has no indication of
any tubercles.

Species 10. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS TESTICULUS. Cass. testâ suboblongo-ovatâ, crassâ,
ponderosâ, Cyprœœformi, spirâ brevissimâ, apice acutâ;
anfractibus evaricosis, longitudinaliter tenuè et creber-
rimè plicato-liratis, supernè rotundatis, basin versus
sulcatis; columellâ callosâ, undique plicato-rugatâ,
labro crassè reﬂexo, intus dentato, aperturâ elongatâ,
angustâ; livido-violascente, purpureo-fusco longitudi‑
naliter undatâ et maculatâ, liris dorsalibus albidis,
columellâ labroque rufescentibus, posteriore ponè nigro-
maculato.

THE PURSE HELMET. Shell somewhat oblong-ovate, thick,
ponderous, Cowry-shaped, spire very short, sharp at
the apex; whorls destitute of varices, longitudinally
ﬁnely and very closely plicately ridged, rounded at
the upper part, grooved towards the base; columella
callous, plicately wrinkled throughout, lip thickly
reﬂected, toothed within, aperture elongated and
narrow; livid violet, longitudinally waved and
spotted with purple brown, dorsal ridges whitish,
columella and lip reddish, the latter spotted behind
with black.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 32.

Buccinum testiculus, Linnæus.
Cassidea testiculus, Bruguière.

Hab. West Indies.

Variety β. (Fig. 10, a.)

Testa subpyriformis, supernè crassissima, turgida, plicato-
tuberculata.

Shell somewhat pear-shaped, very thick, swollen, and pli‑
cately tubercled round the upper part.

Cassis plicata, Martini.
Buccinum plicatum, Dillwyn,
Cassidea crumena, Bruguière.
Cassis crumena, Lamarck.

Hab. West Indies.

M. Kiener has very truly indicated these to be varieties
of the same species, the latter being of a very thick
swollen callous growth, plicately tubercled round the
upper part, but agreeing in the minutest detail with the
former. Both are from the same locality.

August, 1848.