CASSIS.

PLATE VII.

Species 15. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS VIBEX. Cass, testâ elongato-ovatâ, basi peculiariter
eﬀusâ, spirâ subacuminatâ; anfractibus evaricosis, con-
vexis, subobliquè convolutis, lœvigatis, politis, columellâ
incrassatâ, basi uniplicatâ, labro basi quadrispinoso;
carneo-cinerascente, obscurè fasciatâ, ﬂammis fulves-
centibus longitudinaliter pictâ, lineisque indistinctè
fusco-punctatis cingulatâ; columellâ eburneâ, labro cas-
taneo intensè maculato.

THE STRIPED HELMET. Shell elongately ovate, peculiarly
eﬀused at the base, spire somewhat acuminated;
whorls destitute of varices, convex, somewhat ob‐
liquely convoluted, smooth, polished, columella thick‐
ened, one-plaited at the base, lip four-spined at the
base; ﬂeshy ash-colour, obscurely banded, painted
longitudinally with light fulvous ﬂames and encircled
with indistinctly brown-dotted lines; columella ivory-
white, lip intensely spotted with chesnut.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 38.

Buccinum vibex, Linnæus.
Cassidea vibex, Bruguière.

Variety ß. (Fig. 15, a.)

Testa minor, valdè incrassata, anfractibus supernè nodosis,
nodis in plicis sœpè descendentibus.

Shell smaller, very much thickened, with the whorls no-
duled round the upper part, nodules frequently
descending in folds.

Buccinum erinaceus, Linnæus.
Buccinum nodulosum, Gmelin.
Buccinum biarmatum, Dillwyn.
Cassidea erinaceus, Bruguière.
Cassis erinaceus, Lamarck.

Hab. Philippine and Paciﬁc Islands; Cuming.

The species C. vibex and torquata were confounded in‐
discriminately by Linnæus, Lamarck, and others, to judge
by the reference made to Martini’s ﬁgures, the smooth
specimens being set apart under the speciﬁc title of vibex,
the noduled variety under that of erinaceus; it will,
however, be seen that there are two very distinct
species, both equally distinguished in having the upper
portion of the whorls sometimes rounded, sometimes
strongly noduled or plicately tubercled. The name eri‐
naceus is therefore suppressed, as being founded on the

thickened noduled variety of either species, and that which
had not been recognised is named C. torquata.

Species 16. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS RECURVIROSTRUM. Cass, testâ ovatâ, tenuiculâ,
spirâ subacuminatâ, anfractibus evaricosis, Iœvibus,
supernè concavo-declivibus, plicis tenuibus interdum
obsoletis e suturis descendentibus; columellâ subampliter
uniplicatâ et obtusè granosâ, labro subtiliter dentato-
lirato; pallidè fulvo-spadiceâ, maculis parvis rufes-
cente-fuscis subquadratis distantibus seriatim notatâ.

THE RECURVED-BEAK HELMET. Shell ovate, rather thin,
spire somewhat acuminated, whorls destitute of va‐
rices, smooth, concavely slanting round the upper
part, with thin plaits, sometimes obsolete, descending
from the sutures; columella somewhat largely one-
plaited and obtusely grained, lip ﬁnely dentately
ridged; light fulvous bay, marked with rows of small
rather square distant reddish brown spots.

Buccinum recurvirostrum, Wood. Index Test. pl. 22. f. 30.

Hab. Raines’ Island, Torres Straits; Capt. Ince.

M. Kiener ﬁgures this shell as the young of C. inﬂata
(C. granulosa, Lamarck), from which, it is scarcely neces‐
sary to add, it is perfectly distinct. The shell here repre‐
sented, from Mr. Cuming’s collection, is one of mature
growth; and I take it to be the Buccinum recurvirostrum
of Wood, founded on Lister’s ﬁgure, Hist. Conch. t. 1016.
f. 75. It may be observed that this species is from New
Holland, whilst the C. inﬂata is a native of the West
Indies.

Species 17. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS FIMBRIATA. Cass. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, plerumque
tenuiculâ, spirâ subproductâ, apice papillari, anfrac‐
tibus univaricosis, longitudinaliter irregulariter tenui-
plicatis. striis transversis prope apicem basinque decus-
satis, parte superiori dorsali cingulis nodosis tribus
armatâ, nodis posticè compressis; columellâ arcuatâ,
leviter rugatâ, labro externo vix obsoletè, dentato; pal‐
lidè lacteâ, fasciis sex fulvescentibus, lineisque fuscis
interruptis, octo aut pluribus cingulatâ, varicibus fusco-
maculatis.

September, 1848.