CASSIS.

PLATE VI.

Species 13. (Fig. a, Mus. Saul; Fig. b and c, Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS TENUIS. Cass. testâ ovato-oblongâ, cylindraceâ,
Cyprœœformi, tenuiculâ, spirâ brevissimâ, anfractibus
lœvibus, transversim regulariter sulcatis, sulcis binis,
interstitiis longitudinaliter obtusè liratis, tuberculorum
seriebus quatuor armatis; columellâ vix concavâ, su‐
pernè: et infernè rugatâ, labro externa peculiariter
reﬂexo, fortiter dentato-lirato, liris binis; aperturâ
elongatâ, extremitatibus ambabus canaliculatis; pur-
pureo-fuscâ, livido-cœruleo nebulatâ, sulcis lirisque dor-
salibus cœruleo-albidis, columellâ purpureo-nigrâ, rugis
albis, labro columellari basin versus rufo vividè tinctâ,
areâ pone labrum externum purpureo-nigro conspicuè
maculatâ.

THE THIN CASSIS. Shell ovately-oblong, cylindrical,
Cowry-shaped, rather thin, spire very short, whorls
smooth, transversely regularly grooved, grooves two
and two, interstices longitudinally obtusely ridged,
armed with four rows of tubercles; columella slightly
concave, wrinkled above and below, outer lip pecu‐
liarly reﬂected, strongly dentately ridged, ridges in
pairs, aperture elongated, both extremities channelled;
purple-brown, clouded with livid blue, dorsal grooves
and ridges white, columella stained towards the base
with bright red, area behind the outer lip conspi‐
cuously blotched with purple-black.

GRAY, Wood Index Test. Supp. pl. 4. f. 4.
Cassis Massenœ, Kiener.

Hab. Gallapagos Islands (in sandy mud at the depth of
six fathoms); Cuming.

M. Deshayes in his notice of this species likens it to the
C. testiculus; the accompanying ﬁgure of a mature specimen
shows, however, that it is much more nearly allied to the
C. rufa. In its most advanced stage of growth the shell
is comparatively thin, the lip being curled back without
any great deposit of enamel; the general form is more

cylindrically oblong than that of C. rufa, and the aperture-
is wider. The colour and marking are extremely pretty.

The C. tenuis, of which a very small but accurate ﬁgure
was published by Mr. Wood in his supplement to the
‘Index Testaceologicus,’ has been very generally mistaken
by English collectors for Lamarck’s C. pennata, which
is merely the young of C. rufa.

Species 14. (Mus. Saul.)

CASSIS COARCTATA. Cass, testâ cylindraceo-ovatâ, cras-
siusculâ, spirâ brevi, anfractibus evaricosis, transversim
tenuissimè striatis, costis nodulosis cingulatis, quarum
quatuor cœteris majoribus; columellâ breviplicatâ et
obliquè subtiliter rugatâ, labro intus dentato-lirato,
supernè coarctato, non reﬂexo, aperturâ elongatâ, an-
gustâ; cinereo-albidâ, purpureo-fusco tinctâ, nodulis
nonnullis albicantibus, columellâ labrogue rufescentibus.

THE CONTRACTED HELMET. Shell cylindrically ovate,
rather thick, spire short, whorls destitute of varices,
transversely very ﬁnely striated, encircled by nodulous
ribs, four of which are larger than the rest; columella
shortly plicated, and obliquely ﬁnely wrinkled, lip
dentately ridged within, contracted at the upper part,
not reﬂected, aperture elongated and narrow; ash-
white, stained with purple-brown, some of the nodules
whitish, lip and columella reddish.

GRAY, Wood Index Test. Supp. pl. 4. f. 5.
Cyprœacassis coarctata, Stutchbury.

Hab. Gallapagos Islands, Paciﬁc Ocean (in crevices of
rocks); Cuming.

The contraction of the outer lip, which is always con‐
stant, is a singular feature in this species. For the mag‐
niﬁcent specimen here represented, which is of unusually
large size, I am indebted to the choice collection of Miss
Saul.

August, 1848