CASSIS.

PLATE VIII

Species 18. (Mus. Hamilton.)

CASSIS ABBREVIATA. Cass, testâ subgloboso-ovatâ, crassâ,
spirâ breviusculâ, acuminatâ, apice subpapillari; an-
fractibus, ultimo interdum univaricoso, subrotundis,
striis longitudinalibus elevatis, sulcis striisve incisis
transversis decussatis, liris apicem versus conspicuè
granosis; columella fortiter granosâ, labro valdè in-
crassato, prope basin leviter eﬀuso, intus dentato-lirato;
eburneâ, maculis parvis aurantio-fuscis quadratis vel
inœqualibus distantibus plus minus obscurè pictâ, inter‐
dum immaculatâ, labri margine retrorso fusco radiato.

THE ABBREVIATED HELMET. Shell somewhat globosely
ovate, thick, spire rather short, acuminated, apex
rather papillary; whorls, the last being sometimes
one-varicose, somewhat rounded, decussated with
longitudinal raised striæ and transverse engraved
striæ or grooves, ridges conspicuously granose towards
the apex; columella strongly granose, lip excessively
thickened, slightly eﬀused towards the base, dentately
ridged within; ivory white, more or less obscurely
painted with small orange-brown spots which are
square or unequal and distant, sometimes unspotted,
reﬂected edge of the lip rayed with brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 30.
Eadem. Cassis lactea, Kiener.

Hab. Acapulco.

When Lamarck introduced this species, it escaped his
notice, as subsequently that of his commentators, that he
had already referred to a characteristic ﬁgure of it in
Martini (Conch. Cab. vol. ii. pl. 34. f. 351, 2) among the
synonymy of his C. granulosa (C. inﬂata). It presents
itself under so many diﬀerent aspects, that it is somewhat
diﬀicult to recognise the species in all its varieties without
a comparison of numerous specimens. M. Kiener’s C.
lactea is undoubtedly a variety of it, and the same may be
said, with less certainty in the absence of ﬁgures, of the
C. centiquadrata and doliata described in 1811 by Valen‐
ciennes in the Zoology of the Voyage of Humboldt and
Bonpland.

Species 19. (Mus. Metcalfe.)

CASSIS PAUCIRUGIS. Cass. testâ ovatâ, spirâ subacuminatâ,
apice acutâ; anfractibus evaricosis, Iœvibus, nitidis,
longitudinaliter irregulariter tenuissimè inciso-striatis,

apicem versus decussatis, supernè angulato-declivibus,
ad angulum obsoletè nodosis; columellâ vix plicatâ,
labro intus dentato-lirato; eburneâ, politâ, maculis
quadratis fulvescentibus distantibus exilissimè tinctâ,
maculis saturatioribus pone labrum; aperturœ fauce
fulvescente-croceâ.

THE FEW-WRINKLED HELMET. Shell ovate, spire some‐
what acuminated, sharp at the apex; whorls desti‐
tute of varices, smooth, shining, longitudinally irre‐
gularly very ﬁnely marked with engraved striæ,
decussated towards the apex, angularly slanting
round the upper part, obsoletely nodose at the
angle; columella scarcely plicated, lip dentately ridged
within; ivory white, polished, very faintly stained
with distant square fulvous spots, which are darker
behind the lip; interior of the aperture fulvous saﬀron
colour.

MENKE, Moll. Nov. Hollandiæ, p. 23. no. 107.

Hab. West coast of New Holland; Menke.

The Cassis paucirugis was described about ﬁve years
ago by Dr. Menke of Pyrmont, Germany, in his Synopsis
of Shells from New Holland, and kindly made known to
me by the transmission of his original specimen. From
its very discoloured and bleached appearance the species
was regarded with some doubt, but a comparison of further
specimens from the collections of Mr. Cuming, Mr. Met‐
calfe, and Mr. Hanley enables me to add satisfactorily to
the characters already adduced by Dr. Menke. In the
specimen here represented there is a perceptible indication
of square fulvous spots beneath its ivory enamelled surface,
the columellar lip remaining of as clear a porcelain white
as that of the Ovulum ovum, and the interior is distin‐
guished by a warm, fulvous saﬀron hue.

The C.paucirugis has not hitherto been illustrated, and
is but little known. It is impossible to identify a species
with any degree of certainty without the aid of a ﬁgure,
and this, like many more whose existence has only been
recorded by the simple technicalities of a diagnose, has
been waiting in obscurity to be published under a more
intelligible aspect.

Species 20. (Mus. Brit.)

CASSIS RUFA. Cass, testâ ovatâ, Cyprœœformi, crassis-
simâ, ponderosâ, spirâ brevissimâ, anfractibus evari-

September, 1848.