CASSIS.

PLATE IX.

Species 21. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS PILA. Cass. testâ subgloboso-ovatâ, spirâ brevius-
culâ, apice acutâ; anfractibus evaricosis, transversim
undique creberrimè inciso-striatis; columellâ densè
plicato-liratâ, labro dentato-lirato; fulvo-albicante,
maculis numerosis parvis quadratis rufo-fuscis seriatim
pictâ.

THE BALL HELMET. Shell somewhat globosely ovate,
spire rather short, sharp at the apex; whorls destitute
of varices, very closely encircled throughout with
engraved striæ; columella thickly plicately ridged,
lip dentately ridged; fulvous white, painted with
rows of numerous small square red-brown spots.

Hab. China.

A shell of rather light growth, globose in form, painted
with neatly deﬁned distant spots.

Species 22. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Hanley. Fig. c.
Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS INFLATA. Cass. testâ subgloboso-ovatâ, tenuiculâ,
ventricosissimâ, spirâ acutâ; anfractibus rotundatis,
inﬂatis, lœvigatis, transversim obsoletè sulcatis, apicem
versus reticulatè striatis; columellâ leviter plicatâ et
conspicuè granosâ, labro reﬂexo, intus acutè brevilirato;
cœrulescente-albidâ, fasciis quinque macularum rufo-
fuscescentium cingulatâ, maculis subquadratis, irregu-
lariter interruptis.

THE INFLATED HELMET. Shell somewhat globosely ovate,
rather thin, extremely ventricose, spire sharp; whorls
rounded, inﬂated, smooth, transversely obsoletely
grooved, reticulately striated towards the apex; colu‐
mella smoothly plicated and conspicuously granose,
lip reﬂected, sharply shortly ridged within; bluish
white, encircled by ﬁve bands of somewhat square
and irregularly interrupted reddish-brown spots.

Variety β (Fig. a and b. Mus. Hanley.)

Testa multo minor, anfractibus supernè crebrè nodosis, non-
nullis univaricosis.

Shell much smaller, with the whorls closely noduled round
the upper part, some of them distinguished by a varix.

Buccinum inﬂatum, Shaw, Nat. Misc. v. 22. pl. 959.

Buccinum tessellatum, Chemnitz.
Cassidea granulosa, Bruguière.
Cassis granulosa, Lamarck.

Hab. Barbados.

The ﬁrst authentic illustration of this species occurs in
Shaw’s Naturalist’s Miscellany, 1789, with the name Buc-
cinum inﬂatum. Ten years subsequently an equally cha‐
racteristic ﬁgure of it was published by Chemnitz in his
last volume of the Conchylien Cabinet under the title Buc-
cinum cassideum tessellatum. These, however, were over‐
looked by Bruguière and Lamarck, who introduced the
species with the name granulosa, and referred for illustration
to Martini’s ﬁgures, Conch. Cab. v. 2. f. 344—5 and 350-
52, which also comprehend the C. abbreviata and saburon.
Kiener, following in the steps of his predecessors in
adopting the name granulosa, added much to the con-
fusion by representing the C. recurvirostrum to be the young
of it, and that both were merely varieties of the C. sulcosa
of the Mediterranean, arising out of diﬀerences of age or
sex. It does not appear that this crotchet of M. Kiener’s
was noticed in the new edition of Lamarck, and M. Deshayes
errs in stating that the ﬁgures above alluded to in Martini.
“can only be referred to this species.” The shell Fig.
344-5 is without doubt a C. inﬂata, though presenting the
unusual feature of a strong lateral varix, but ﬁg. 350, is
a variety of C. saburon, distinguished by the dark spots
behind the reﬂected lip, and the shell, Fig. 351—2 is a
pale variety of Lamarck’s C. abbreviata.

The coronated variety of C. inﬂatum is very uniform
and I am not aware that it exceeds the size of the specimen
here ﬁgured.

Species 23. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS JAPONICA. Cass. testâ ovatâ, tenuiculâ, ventricosâ,
inﬂatâ, spirâ breviusculâ, acutâ; anfractibus supernè
rotundatis, transversim acutè sulcatis, sulcis supremis
cœteris latioribus, striis subtilibus elevatiusculis longi-
tudinalibus obliquis decussatis; columellâ plicato-ru-
gatâ, rugis partim obsoletis, interruptis et obscurè gra-
nulatis; labro dentato-lirato; albidâ, maculis oblongo-
quadratis inœqualibus castaneo-ruﬁs quinquefasciatis.

THE JAPAN HELMET. Shell ovate, rather thin, ventri-
cose, inﬂated, spire rather short, sharp; whorls
rounded at the upper part, transversely sharply
grooved, uppermost grooves broader than the rest,
decussated with very ﬁne slightly elevated longitu‐
dinal oblique striæ; columella plicately wrinkled,
wrinkles partially obsolete, interrupted and obscurely
granulated; lip dentately toothed; whitish, encircled

September, 1848.