CASSIS.

PLATE X.

Species 25. (Fig. a. Mus. Cuming.
Fig. b. Mus. Saul.)

CASSIS TURGIDA. Cass. testâ ovatâ, tenuiculâ, ventricosâ,
spirâ subacuminatâ, anfractibus evaricosis, lœvibus,
turgidis, supernè rotundatis; columellâ valdè contortâ,
basi uniplicatâ, labro undique dentato-spinoso; lacteâ,
pallidè castaneo longitudinaliter ﬂammatâ, labro intensè
castaneo maculato.

THE SWOLLEN HELMET. Shell ovate, rather thin, ventri-
cose, spire somewhat acuminated, whorls destitute of
varices, smooth, swollen, rounded at the upper part;
columella much twisted, one-plaited at the base, lip
dentately spinous throughout; cream-coloured, longi‐
tudinally ﬂamed with pale chesnut, lip spotted with
very dark chesnut.

Hab. Boljoon, Island of Zebu, Philippines (on sand
banks); Cuming.

A ﬁne species belonging to the same group as C. acha-
tina, vibex, and torquata; the whorls are distinguished for
their swollen rotundity, and the columella is remarkably
twisted. The lip is dentately spinous throughout. I have
not seen any noduled variety of this species.

Species 20. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS UNDATA. Cass. testâ ovatâ, gibbosiusculâ, spirâ
acuminatâ, apice acutâ; anfractibus univaricosis,
lœvibus, basi conspicuè sulcatis, supernè depressiusculis
et striatis, apicem versus granuloso-decussatis; colu‐
mellâ plicatâ et interruptè rugatâ, medio tuberculatâ,
labro fortissimè dentato-lirato, liris elongatis; cœruleo-
albicante, fulvescente-fusco longitudinaliter striatâ.

THE WAVED HELMET. Shell ovate, rather gibbous, spire
acuminated, sharp at the apex; whorls one-varicose,
smooth, conspicuously grooved at the base, a little
depressed and striated round the upper part, granu-
lously decussated towards the apex; columella pli‐
cated and interruptedly wrinkled, tuberculated in the
middle, lip very strongly dentately ridged, ridges
elongated; bluish-white, longitudinally streaked with
fulvous brown.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 28, note.

Cassis lœvis undata, Martini.
Buccinum strigatum, Gmelin.
Cassidea areola, var., Bruguière.

Cassis zebra, Lamarck.

Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

Although the patterns of this species and the C. areola
are united in the C. decussata, they are not varieties of the
same as assumed by Bruguière and Kiener. The C. areola
is a narrower and more gibbous shell than the C. undata,
which is eminently distinguished from the former by the
strong linear grooves around the base. The dentate ridges
on the outer lip are longer and more strongly developed.

Species 27. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS PLICATA. Cass. testâ subelongato-ovatâ, peculiariter
compressâ, spirâ subacuminatâ, apice acutâ; anfracti‐
bus univaricosis, transversim subtilissimè lineari-sul-
catis, supernè concavo-declivibus, margine noduloso-
crenatis, infra subtiliter bi-seriatim gemmatis, ad
angulum conspicuè muricato-nodosis, nodis in plicis
prominulis subarcuatis descendentibus; columellâ latè
expansâ, plicato-rugatis, rugis brevibus, labro acutè
dentato-liratis, basi obsoletè trispinoso; livido-albi-
cante, fulvescente longitudinaliter undulatè strigatâ,
varicibus fusco-maculatis, columellâ labroque albis,
aperturœ fauce fulvo-castaneâ.

THE PLICATED HELMET. Shell somewhat elongately
ovate, peculiarly compressed, spire somewhat acu‐
minated, sharp at the apex; whorls one-varicose,
transversely ﬁnely linearly grooved, concavely slanting
at the upper part, nodulously crenated at the margin,
encircled by two ﬁnely beaded ridges beneath, con‐
spicuously prickly noduled at the angle, nodules
descending in prominent slightly curved plaits;
columella widely expanded, plicately wrinkled,
wrinkles short, lip sharply dentately ridged, obso-
letely three-spinose at the base; livid-white, longitu‐
dinally undulately streaked with pale fulvous-colour,
varices spotted with brown, lip and columella whitish,
interior of the aperture fulvous chesnut.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 26, note.

Buccinum plicatum, Linnæus.
Buccinum ﬁmbria, Gmelin.
Cassis plicaria, Lamarck.

Hab. Moluccas.

We are indebted to M. Deshayes for having identiﬁed
Lamarck’s Cassis plicaria with the Buccinum plicatum of

September, 1848.