CASSIS.

PLATE XI.

Species 29. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS PYRUM. Cass. testâ ovato-globosâ, plerumque cras-
sissimâ, anfractibus convexis, lœvigatis, supernè plus
minusve angulatis, interdum subnodosis; columellâ
crassâ, lœvigatâ, basi obscurè sulcatâ, labro reﬂexo,
incrassato; aurantio-lacteâ, nigricante-fusco pone va‐
rices maculatâ.

THE PEAR HELMET. Shell ovately globose, generally very
thick, whorls convex, smooth, more or less angulated
round the upper part, sometimes slightly nodose;
columella thickened, smooth, obscurely grooved at
the base, lip reﬂected, thickened; orange cream-colour,
spotted with blackish-brown behind the varices.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 33.

Eadem. Cassis Zeylanica, Lamarck.

Hab. New Holland.

I cannot observe any character of suﬃcient permanence
to distinguish Lamarck’s Zeylanica from C. pyrum. The
species is sometimes comparatively thin and lightly no-
duled, but more frequently very much thickened, with the
enamel sometimes deposited in rude callous layers.

Species 30. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS SULCOSA. Cass. testâ ovatâ, spirâ subproductâ,
acutâ, anfractibus evaricosis, supernè concavo-depressis,
sulcis regularibus equidistantibus undique cingulatis;
columellâ plicato-rugatâ et granosâ, labro sœpissimè
valdè incrassato, intus acutè fortiter lirato; griseo-
fulvâ, ferrugineo-fusco maculatâ et ﬂammatâ.

THE GROOVED HELMET. Shell ovate, spire somewhat
produced, sharp, whorls destitute of varices, con-
cavely depressed round the upper part, encircled
throughout with regular, equidistant grooves; colu‐
mella plicately wrinkled and granose, lip frequently
very much thickened, sharply and strongly ridged
within; greyish fulvous colour, blotched and ﬂamed
with rusty brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 34.

Buccinum sulcosum, Born.
Cassidea sulcosa, Bruguière.
Buccinum undulatum, Gmelin.

Hab. Mediterranean.

The common species of the Mediterranean, perfectly
distinct from the C. inﬂata and others with which M.
Kiener seems to confound it. Owing to its ventricose
growth and the regularity with which it is spirally grooved
throughout, it has somewhat the aspect of a Dolium.

September, 1848.