TURRITELLA.

PLATE I.

Genus TURRITELLA. Lamarck.

Testa elongato-turrita, lanceolato-acuminata, nunquam um‐
bilicata, anfractibus numerosis, sœpissimè transversim
costatis vel striatis, nunquam longitudinaliter exsculptis,
evaricosis, nunquam spinosis aut muricatis; aperturâ
parviusculâ, plus minusve rotundatâ, marginibus dis-
junctis, labro sœpè medio sinuato.

Shell elongately turreted, lanceolately acuminated, never
umbilicated, whorls numerous, mostly transversely
ribbed or striated, never longitudinally sculptured,
destitute of varices, never spined or prickly; aperture
rather small, more or less rounded, margins disjoined,
lip often sinuated in the middle.

The genus Turritella aﬀords excellent characters for the
distinction of species. Constructed upon the simple type
of an enlarging tube, the shell is developed with geometri‐
cal symmetry in short convolutions, varying from ﬁfteen to
thirty in number, the same number in each species,
forming a sharply acuminated screw. The whorls are
sometimes ﬂattened or a little concave, and being always
contiguous there is no indication of any umbilicus. No
varices or tubercles are formed, as in Cerithium, nor is
there any periodical developement of sculpture on the
margin of the aperture. The ribs and striæ of Turritella
range transversely, that is, spirally, never longitudinally,
and are rarely granulated or noduled. The best characters
for the discrimination of species reside in the ﬁrst eight or
ten whorls from the apex; beyond this point the sculpture
varies slightly or becomes obsolete, as the shell approaches
maturity. In colour the reverse of this condition is pre‐
sented, the pattern becoming gradually darker and more
deﬁned towards the aperture,

The genus Turritella has been somewhat neglected by
conchologists. Only eleven species were described by
Lamarck, and a monograph lately published in Paris by
M. Kiener includes less than half the number now before
me from the cabinets of Mr. Cuming, Mr. Metcalfe,
Mr. Hanley, Sir. Edward Belcher, the British Museum, and
the Banksian Collection in the museum of the Linnæan
Society; amounting to sixty-ﬁve all distinctly charac‐
terized in respect of form, sculpture, and painting.

The Linnæan species have not been correctly inter‐
preted by Lamarck, Deshayes, or Kiener, for want of access
to the original types of the ‘Systema Naturæ’ preserved
in the museum of the Linnæan Society of London. The
Turbo acutangulus of Linnæus proves to be a simple
variety of the T. duplicatus, and not the shell assigned to
it by M. Deshayes. The shell described as Turbo variega-
tus in the ‘Systema Naturæ,’ though diﬀering materially in

general aspect from that which served for the description
of the Turbo imbricatus, may, nevertheless, be traced to
belong to the same species; and the Turbo ungulinus of
Linnæus proves to be identical with Lamarck’s Turritella
fuscata. The British species Turbo terebra, Linn. in
‘Fauna Suecica’ (not of Syst. Nat.) and Montagu, must
be referred to the T. cornea of Lamarck,

The Turritella brevialis of Lamarck (LeMesal of Adanson)
constitutes the type of a new genus, founded by Mr. Gray,
under the name MESALIA, to which I venture to add the
Turritella lactea of Möller, and a very characteristic species
from the Cumingian collection. A genus has been also intro‐
duced by Mr. Gray, with equal judgment, under the name
EGLISIA, founded on the Turritella spirata of the Tanker-
ville Catalogue; and to this is added a species collected
by Mr. Cuming at one of the Philippine Islands.

The Turritellœ have a wide range of habitation and dwell
at a considerable depth as well as near the surface. The
T. cornea has been recently dredged oﬀ the Shetland Islands
by Mr. M’Andrew at a depth of many fathoms, beyond the
inﬂuence of light and colourless. Only two comparatively
small species besides this, extend so far from north of the
equator as the Mediterranean. The greater number are
from the Eastern Seas and the shores of Central America,
and there are a few known from New Zealand, Australia,
and Van Dieman’s Land.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA UNGULINA. Turr. testâ acuminato-turritâ,
anfractibus quindecim, convexis, lœvibus, regulariter
decem-striatis, interstitiis superﬁcialiter sulcatis, aper‐
turâ suboblongo-ovali; castaneo-rufâ, aperturam versus
ustulato-nigrâ.

THE NAIL‐BRUISED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately
turreted, whorls ﬁfteen in number, convex, smooth,
regularly ten striated, interstices superﬁcially grooved,
aperture rather oblong-oval; chestnut-red, burnt
black towards the aperture.

Turbo ungulinus, Linnæus, Syst. Nat. (12th. edit.) p. 1240.
Turritella fuscata, Lamarck.

Hab. Senegal, Mouth of the Gambia, West Africa.

The original specimen which served Linnæus for the
type of his Turbo ungulinus, still preserved in the
museum of the Linnæan Society of London, proves, as
Mr. Hanley ﬁrst pointed out to me, to be Lamarck’s T.
fuscata. The locality “Seas of Europe” erroneously given
in the ‘Systema Naturæ’ led Dr. Pulteney, and recently
M. Deshayes, to assign the Linnæan species to the only
Turritella existing north of the Mediterranean; on the

May, 1849.