TURRITELLA.

PLATE II.

Species 5. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA LEUCOSTOMA. Turr. testâ subpyramidali-
acuminatâ, angustâ, acutissimè lanceolatâ, solidiusculâ,
anfractibus ad viginti, supernè contractis, suturis ex-
cavatis, infernè extrorsum projectis, planulatis, spi-
raliter sex-liratis, liris angustis, subdistantibus, inter-
stitiis subtilissimè striatis; fulvescente-albâ, liris ni-
tidè aurantio-rufo articulatis.

THE WHITE‐MOUTH TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat pyra‐
midally acuminated, narrow, very sharply lanceolate,
rather solid, whorls about twenty in number, con‐
tracted round the upper part, sutures excavated,
projected outwardly round the lower part, ﬂattened,
spirally six-ridged, ridges narrow, rather distant,
interstices very ﬁnely striated; fulvous white, ridges
neatly articulated with orange-brown.

VALENCIENNES, Zool. Voy. Humboldt et Bonpland, vol. ii.
p. 275.

Hab. Gulf of Nicoiyo (in sandy mud at the depth of eleven
fathoms); Cuming.

Distinguished by the truly regular style in which the
shell is turreted. The whorls contracted round the upper
part and projecting outwards gradually towards the base,
look like an attenuated pyramid of thimbles; and they
are spirally encircled throughout by a row of neatly arti‐
culated ridges.

Species 6. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA BRODERIPIANA. Turr. testâ elongato-turritâ,
subcylindraceo-tumidâ, anfractibus octodecim, undique
creberrimè impresso-striatis, perpaucis primis unicari-
natis, medianis planulatis, cæteris medio depresso-con-
cavis, suturis interdum indistinctis; fulvescente, cæru-
leo-fuscescente nebulatâ, lineis rubido-fuscis transversis
brevibus interruptis, in strigis undulatis frequenter dis-
positis, densè lentiginosâ.

BRODERIP’S TURRITELLA. Shell elongately turreted,
somewhat cylindrically swollen, whorls eighteen in

number, very closely impressly striated throughout,
the ﬁrst few whorls one-keeled, the next ﬂattened,
then depressly concave in the middle, sutures some‐
times indistinct; light fulvous colour, clouded with
blue-brown and thickly freckled with short inter‐
rupted red-brown transverse lines, mostly disposed
in waved streaks.

D’ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l’Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 388.
Turritella marmorata, Kiener.

Hab. Payta, Peru (in ﬁne sand at a depth of about eight
fathoms); Cuming.

The T. Broderipiana has a very characteristic style of
painting, consisting of a profusion of short irregular linear
dashes, ranged transversely, but mostly disposed in con‐
fused longitudinally waved streaks; and over these, there
is generally a scorched blue-brown stain of colouring.
The shell is of an uncouth subcylindrical growth, spirally
encircled throughout with ﬁne grooved striæ.

Species 7. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA BACILLUM. Turr. testâ elongato-acuminatâ,
anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, convexis, supernè sub-
planulatis, spiraliter quinque- vel sex-carinatis, carinis
angustis, subirregulariter distantibus, aperturam versus
ferè evanidis; livido-fulvescente, carinis saturatioribus.

THE STAFF TURRITELLA. Shell elongately acuminated,
whorls eighteen to twenty in number, convex, rather
ﬂattened round the upper part, spirally ﬁve- to six-
keeled, keels narrow, somewhat irregularly distant,
almost disappearing towards the aperture; livid ful‐
vous colour, the keels being of darker hue.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv., p. 5. pl. 4. f. 1.

Hab. Ceylon.

The spiral keels of this species are not developed in the
sharp prominent style of the T. terebra. Towards the
aperture they nearly disappear, leaving their colour on
the surface as though they had sunk, so to speak, into
the substance of the shell.

May, 1849.