TURRITELLA.

PLATE III.

Species 8. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA TIGRINA. Turr. testâ pyramidali-turritâ,
subangustâ, solidiusculâ, anfractibus octodecim ad vi‐
ginti, spiraliter quinque- vel sex-liratis, costâ tumidâ
declivi ad basin angulatis; albidâ, ﬂammis obliquis
purpureo-nigris profusè pictâ.

THE TIGER‐STRIPED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally
turreted, somewhat narrow, rather solid, whorls
eighteen to twenty in number, spirally ﬁve- or six-
ridged, angled at the base with a slanting swollen
rib; whitish, profusely painted with oblique purple-
black ﬂames.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv., p. 29. pl. 4. f. 2.

Hab. Gulf of California.

The peculiarities of this species, which approaches the
T. lentiginosa and goniostoma, consist in its more solid
structure and narrow pyramidal growth, whilst the whorls
are swollen to an obtuse angle round the base. The
colouring is disposed in more deﬁnite stripes, especially
towards the apex. In the species just mentioned the
ﬁrst few whorls are conspicuously keeled round the middle,
but in the T. tigrina there is little variation from the
general pattern.

Species 9. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA LENTIGINOSA. Turr. testâ subobeso-turritâ,
anfractibus ad viginti, primis perpaucis carinatis, me‐
dianis planulatis, cæteris medio convexis, basi tumi-
dis, omnibus creberrimè spiraliter striatis et sulcatis,
aperturam versus laminis irregularibus imbricatis;
albidâ, lineis subtilibus fuscis, brevibus, interruptis,
spiraliter lentiginosâ, maculis strigisve nigricantibus
subindistinctis obliquè nebulatâ, apice interdum vio-
laceo.

THE FRECKLED TURRITELLA. Shell rather stoutly tur‐
reted. whorls about twenty in number, the ﬁrst few
carinated, the middle whorls rather ﬂattened, the
rest convex in the middle and swollen round the
base, the whole very ﬁnely spirally grooved and
striated, and imbricated with irregular laminæ to‐
wards the aperture: whitish, spirally freckled with
short interrupted ﬁne brown lines, and obliquely
clouded with rather indistinct blackish streaks and
blotches, apex sometimes tinged with violet.

Hab. Payta, Peru (in coarse sand at a depth of about ﬁve
fathoms); Cuming.

A shell of rather stout growth, generally more or less
imbricated with rude irregular laminæ near the outer lip.
The ﬁrst seven or eight whorls are distinctly keeled round
the middle, the next seven or eight are ﬂattened in a
manner almost to obliterate the suture, and the remainder
are sunk in the middle and swollen above and below,
showing the sutures more distinctly.

The painting of this species consists of a profusion of
extremely ﬁne, short, brown, transverse lines or dashes,
over which is an obscure confused marbling of oblique
blackish blotches; in some specimens this is wanting
and its place is supplied by a dull greyish tinting. The
apex is frequently of a delicate violet colour. Care
should be taken not to confound the T. lentiginosa with
the following species which is characterized by a diﬀerent
style of painting and a slight diﬀerence of form.

Species 10. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA GONIOSTOMA. Turr. testâ subcylindraceo-
acuminatâ, anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, spiraliter
tenuistriatis, primis perpaucis carinatis, medianis
planulatis, cæteris medio concavis, costâ interdum
prominulâ et crenatâ, supra et infra angulatis, an-
fractu ultimo sæpè prope aperturam laminis subimbri-
catis; albâ, griseo- vel rufescente-nigro densè mar-
moratâ.

THE ANGULAR‐MOUTH TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat cy-
lindrically acuminated, whorls eighteen to twenty in
number, spirally ﬁnely striated, the ﬁrst very few
whorls keeled, the middle whorls smooth, the rest
concave in the middle, angled above and below with
a rib, which is sometimes prominent and crenated,
last whorl often slightly imbricated near the aperture
with laminæ; white, thickly marbled with grey or
reddish-black.

VALENCIENNES, Zool. Voy. Humboldt et Bonpland, vol. ii.
p. 275.

Hab. Payta, Peru; Salango, West Columbia; Guacomayo,
Central America (in sandy mud at depths of from
ﬁve to ten fathoms); Cuming.

The variation of sculpture in the several stages of the
growth of this species is very similar to that of the pre-

May, 1849.