TURRITELLA.

PLATE V.

Species 16. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA BREVIALIS.

For description of this Lamarckian species see Genus
MESALIA, Gray, immediately following the present.

For Sp. 16, see Pl. X.

Species 17. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA TRISULCATA. Turr. testâ acuminato-turritâ,
anfractibus ad octodecim, transversim conspicuè tri-
costatis, costis distantibus, sulcis intermediis excavatis;
albidâ, apicem versus violascente, ﬂammulis perpaucis
irregularibus aurantio-fuscis obliquè pictâ.

THE THREE‐GROOVED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately
turreted, whorls about eighteen in number, trans‐
versely conspicuously three-ribbed, ribs distant, inter‐
mediate grooves hollowed; whitish, tinged with violet
towards the apex, obliquely painted with a very few
irregular orange-brown ﬂames.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. ix. p. 256.

Hab. Red Sea; Kiener.

The only species which is prominently three-ribbed. The
painting is well characterized by Lamarck in the words, “ses
ﬂammules sont éparses.”

Species 18. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA ANNULATA. Turr. testâ lanceolato-turritâ,
anfractibus viginti, spiraliter striatis, supernè declivi-
bus, deinde concavis et bicarinatis, carinis aperturam
versus distantioribus, evanescentioribus, et interdum
duplicatis; fulvo-spadiceâ, longitudinaliter obscurè
albinebulatâ.

THE RINGED TURRITELLA. Shell lanceolately turreted,
whorls twenty in number, spirally striated, slanting
round the upper part, then concave and two-keeled,
keels becoming gradually more distant, towards the
aperture, fainter, and sometimes duplicate; fulvous-
bay, longitudinally obscurely clouded with white.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 20. pl. 13. f. 1.

Hab. Mouth of the Gambia, West Africa.

In the ﬁrst ten whorls of this species, according to the
specimen before me, the whorls are prominently developed
and contiguous; after this period of its growth they become

gradually fainter and more distant, separating at length
into two faint ridges.

Species 19. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA VARIEGATA. Turr. testâ pyramidali-turritâ,
anfractibus quindecim ad sedecim, perpaucis primis
supernè declivibus, infernè excavatis, cæteris plano-con-
cavis, supra suturas tumidiusculis, striis confertis li-
risque quatuor vel quinque subtilibus, distantibus, inter‐
dum obsoletè granulosis, cingulatis; albidâ vel purpuras-
cente-spadiceâ, rufo-fusco punctatâ et longitudinaliter
variegatâ, liris interdum fusco alboque articulatis,
aperturæ fauce purpurascente.

THE VARIEGATED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally tur‐
reted, whorls ﬁfteen to sixteen in number, the ﬁrst few
slanting round the upper part, excavated beneath, the
rest ﬂatly concave, rather swollen above the sutures,
encircled with four or ﬁve distant sometimes obso-
letely granulated ridges; whitish or purple-tinged
fawn, dotted and longitudinally variegated with red-
brown, ridges sometimes articulated with brown and

White, interior of the aperture purplish.
Turbo variegatus, Linn. Syst. Nat. (12th. edit.) p. 1240.
Turritella imbricata, Lamarck.
Var. elongata. Turbo imbricatus, Linnæus.

Hab. Island of Margarita, West Indies; Dr. Hornbeck.

The original type of the Turbo variegatus in the Linnæan
collection is a shell of immature growth, but extremely
well characterized and highly coloured. The shell which
served for Linnæus’s Turbo imbricatus is, on the contrary,
in the worst possible condition, perfectly bleached, and
only retaining a suﬃcient amount of sculpture to identify
it with the elongated variety represented by Kiener at
Pl. IX. ﬁg. 2a. A comparison of these shells with speci‐
mens in Mr. Cuming’s collection and in the British
Museum (for one of which illustrative of the elongated
variety, see Pl. IX. ﬁg. 19 b) has enabled me to determine
their aﬃnity with satisfaction; and the name variegatus
should be used in preference to that adopted by Lamarck,
from the fact of its being a more appropriate one, and that
which was assigned by Linnæus to the species in its normal
form and condition.

Species 20. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA BICINGULATA. Turr. testâ acuminato-turritâ,
anfractibus octodecim, subtiliter striatis, supernè de-

May, 1849.