TURRITELLA.—PLATE V.

presso-excavatis, deinde bicostatis, costis prominentibus,
tumidis, planiusculis, distantibus, interstitio excavato,
suturis subprofundè excavatis; fulvo-albidâ, rufo-fusco
profusè ﬂammatâ et variegatâ, areâ inter costas parum
pictâ, basi et aperturœ fauce purpureo-roseis.

THE TWO-GIRDLED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately tur-
reted, whorls eighteen in number, ﬁnely striated, de-
pressly excavated round the upper part, then two-
ribbed, ribs prominent, swollen, rather ﬂattened,
distant, with the interstice excavated, sutures rather
deeply excavated; fulvous white, profusely ﬂamed
and variegated with red-brown, area between the ribs
but little painted, base and interior of the aperture
purple-rose.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. ix. p. 256.

Turritella biangulata, De Blainville.

Hab. Porto Praya, Cape de Verd Islands.

This ﬁne species from the Cape de Verd Islands is dis‐
tinguished by a pair of conspicuous swollen keels and a
bold profuse style of painting; the base and aperture are
of a peculiar purplish-hue.

At Pl. VII. Sp. 33, is another species very similar to

this, collected by Capt. Sir E. Belcher during the Voyage
of the Sulphur.

Species 21. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA TORULOSA. Turr. testâ acuminato-turritâ,
crassiusculâ, anfractibus quindecim, rotundatis, striatis,
prismis bicostatis, cæteris gradatim quadricostatis, costis
obsoletè granatis, duabus inferioribus fortioribus; ful-
vescente-albâ, rufo-fusco punctatâ et eximiè ﬂammulatâ.

THE CORDED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted,
rather thick, whorls ﬁfteen in number, rounded,
striated, ﬁrst whorls two ribbed, the rest gradually
four-ribbed, ribs obsoletely grained, the two lower
ribs always the stronger; light fulvous white, dotted
and delicately ﬂamed with red-brown.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 18. pl. 6. f. 3.

Hab.—?

The whorls are more than usually rounded in this
species, and they are corded with four rather prominent
ribs, the upper two of which are not developed until the
shell has advanced to its ninth or tenth convolution. The
painting has a peculiarly dotted character.