TURRITELLA.—PLATE VI.

The characters by which this species diﬀers from
T. bacillum are apparently of trivial importance, but they
are constant in several specimens that have come under
my observation. The whorls are more swollen round the
lower part, and the keels are ﬁner, more numerous, and
not distinguished by any darker colouring.

Species 26. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA CROCEA. Turr. testâ pyramidali-turritâ,
solidiusculâ, anfractibus viginti ant pluribus, convexo-
planulatis, spiraliter quinque-ad decem-carinatis, carinis
subtilibus, inæquidistantibus; croceo-brunneâ, anfrac-
tuum parte superiori saturatiore; suturis pallidioribus.

THE SAFFRON-TINGED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally
turreted, rather solid, whorls twenty or more in
number, convexly ﬂattened, spirally ﬁve to ten-
keeled, keels ﬁne, inequidistant; saﬀron-brown, upper
part of the whorls darker, sutures paler.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 24. pl. 11. f. 2.

Hab. China.

The ﬂattened surface of the whorls and light colouring
of the sutures constitute the characteristic features of this
species. The spiral keels are unusually numerous, but
the alternate ones are sometimes only faintly developed,
leaving ﬁve only of a prominent character.

Species 27. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA SANGUINEA. Turr. testâ subelongato-turritâ,
anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, convexis, spiraliter
impresso-sulcatis, sulcis irregularibus, liris intermediis

planiusculis; fulvo-albicante, liris maculis sanguineis
transversis, oblongo-quadratis, profusè pictis.

THE BLOOD-STAINED TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat
elongately turreted, whorls eighteen to twenty in
number, convex, spirally impressly grooved, grooves
irregular, intermediate ridges rather ﬂattened; fulvous
white, ridges profusely painted with transverse ob‐
long-square blood-stained spots.

Hab. California.

A very characteristic species in which the entire surface
is closely painted with transverse oblong-square dull blood‐
stained spots.

Species 28. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA GEMMATA. Turr. testâ pyramidali-turritâ,
crassiusculâ, ad basin angulatâ, anfractibus ad quindecim,
supernè bicostatis, medio concavis, infernè unicostatis,
costis superioribus granatis, inferiori lævi; albâ, rufes-
cente-fusco hic illic pallidè tinctâ.

THE GEMMED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally turreted,
rather thick, angled at the base, whorls about ﬁfteen
in number, encircled with two granulated ribs round
the upper part, and one smooth one round the lower,
concave in the middle; white, faintly stained here
and there with light orange brown.

Hab.—?

The structure of this species approaches somewhat in
pattern to that of the T. radula, though it will be found
to diﬀer on comparison in the lower spiral rib being smooth
except on the last whorl. The species diﬀer materially in
form, the T. gemmata being shorter and composed of much
fewer whorls.