TURRITELLA.

PLATE VII.

Species 29. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA COCHLEA. Turr. testâ subulato-turritâ, cras-
siusculâ, anfractibus quindecim, spiraliter striatis,
supernè depresso-excavatis, medio bicarinatis, carinis an-
gustis, elevatis, acutis, distantibus, interstitio excavato,
aperturâ parvâ; albidâ.

THE SCREW TURRITELLA. Shell subulately turreted,
rather thick, whorls ﬁfteen in number, spirally
striated, depressly excavated round the upper part,
two-keeled in the middle, keels narrow, elevated,
sharp, distant, with the interstices between them ex‐
cavated, aperture small; white.

Hab.—?

The form of this species is remarkably characterized by
its very prominent bicarinate structure, resembling the
thread of a large ﬂattened press-screw. The specimen
here represented from Mr. Cuming’s collection is the only
one I have seen; and he possesses no information as to its
locality. It exhibits no indication of colour.

Species 30. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA RADULA. Turr. testâ lanceolato-acuminatâ,
gracili, anfractibus ad duobus et viginti, suprà infràque
biliratis, medio concavis, liris, nisi inﬁmâ, granoso-cre-
natis, anfractu ultimo lamellis septiformibus interdum
imbricato, granulis subobsoletis; violascente-albidâ,
rufo-fuscescente ﬂammatâ et variegatâ.

THE GRATER TURRITELLA. Shell lanceolately acuminated,
slender, whorls about two and twenty in number,
double-ridged above and below, concave in the
middle, ridges, excepting the lowest, granosely cre-
nated, last whorl sometimes imbricated with septiform
lamellæ, granules rather obsolete; violet-white, ﬂamed
and variegated with reddish-brown.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 13. pl. 2. f. 1.

Hab. Isle of Muerte, Bay of Guayaquil (found at the depth
of eleven fathoms in sandy mud); Cuming.

The form of the whorls of this elongated lanceolate
species is very similar to that of T. exoleta; the middle is
however less concave and the upper and lower ribs are re‐
presented each by two smaller ridges which are granosely
crenulated.

Species 31. (Mus. Metcalfe.)

TURRITELLA HASTULA. Turr. testâ acutè lanceolatâ,
gracili, anfractibus duobus vel tribus et viginti, con-
vexiusculis, concentricè plicato-corrugatis, ulterioribus
planatis, basi tumidiusculis, rugis evanidis, anfractibus
omnibus spiraliter inciso-striatis, liris intermediis ob‑
soletè granulatis; cinereo-albicante, purpureo-brunneo
arcuatim strigatâ et variegatâ.

THE LITTLE LANCE TURRITELLA. Shell sharply lan‑
ceolate, slender, whorls two or three and twenty in
number, rather convex, concentrically plicately
wrinkled, the latter ﬂattened, rather swollen at the
base, the wrinkles faded away, all the whorls spirally
impressly striated, the intermediate ridges being
obsoletely granulated; ash-white, arcuately streaked
and variegated with purple-brown.

Hab.—?

A very slender sharply lanceolate shell, fully distinguished
by the peculiarities of sculpture above described from any-
other species of this monograph.

Species 32. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA FERRUGINEA. Turr. testâ subelongato-tur-
ritâ, ad basin angulatâ et subcarinatâ, anfractibus se-
decim, convexis, spiraliter subtiliter liratis, primis bica-
rinatis, carinis gradatim evanidis, lirarum interstitiis
striis minutis longitudinalibus sub lente creberrimè de-
cussatis; albidâ, basin versus ferrugineo-castaneo tinctâ.

THE RUSTY TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat elongately
turreted, angulated and slightly keeled at the base,
whorls sixteen in number, convex, spirally ﬁnely
ridged, the ﬁrst whorls two-keeled, keels gradually
fading, interstices between the ridges very closely
decussated beneath the lens with minute longitudinal
striæ; whitish, stained towards the base with rusty
chestnut.

Hab.—?

The whorls of this species have a peculiar angular
carinate structure at the base, in the place of the suture.

Species 33. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA MACULATA. Turr. testâ acuminato-turritâ, basi
concavâ et nitidè striatâ, anfractibus octodecim spira-

May, 1849.