TURRITELLA.

PLATE IX.

Species 42. (Mus. Brit.)

TURRITELLA TASMANICA. Turr. testâ angusto-acumi-
natâ, solidiusculâ, anfractibus quindecim, planiusculis,
ad marginem inferioriem liratis, liris duabus striisque
intermediis supra cingulatis, interstitiis striis minutis
elevatis obliquis creberrimè decussatis; sordidè albâ.

THE TASMANIAN TURRITELLA. Shell narrowly acumi‐
nated, rather solid, whorls ﬁfteen in number, rather
ﬂattened, ridged at the lower edge, encircled with
two ridges and intermediate striæ above, interstices
very closely decussated with minute oblique raised
striæ; dead white.

Hab. Van Dieman’s Land; Dr. Sinclair.

The only specimen of this, in the British Museum, is in
bad condition and colourless, but aﬀords strong characters
for the foundation of the species. It approximates nearest
to the T. clathrata in which the spiral ridges are more
strongly and conspicuously developed, and the interstices
smooth.

Species 43. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA TRIPLICATA. Turr. testâ acuminato-turritâ,
crassiusculâ, anfractibus quindecim, spiraliter striatis,
et tricostatis, costis planulatis, medianâ multo majore,
superiori parvâ, duplicatâ, apicem versus interdum
obsoletâ; nunc albidâ, castaneo variegatâ et ﬂammatâ,
nunc castaneâ, unicolore.

THE THREE-PLAITED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately
turreted, rather thick, whorls ﬁfteen in number,
spirally striated, and three-ribbed, ribs ﬂattened, the
middle rib much the largest, the upper one small,
duplicate, and sometimes obsolete towards the apex;
whitish, variegated and ﬂamed with chestnut, some‐
times entirely chestnut.

STUDER, Philippi, Enum. Moll. Sicil. p. 190.

Hab. Mediterranean and West Coast of Africa.

The specimens here ﬁgured of this species are from the
mouth of the Gambia; in the Mediterranean it is of some‐
what smaller dimensions and of lighter growth.

Species 44. (Mus. Brit.)

TURRITELLA NIVEA. Turr. testâ elongato-turritâ, crassi‐
usculâ, anfractibus viginti, supernè contractis, deinde
tumidiusculis, transversim septem-costatis, costis inter-
stitiisque striatis, æqualibus, striis minutis incrementi
creberrimè decussatis, anfractibus perpaucis primis
bicarinatis, carinis cito evanidis; niveâ.

THE SNOW‐WHITE TURRITELLA. Shell elongately tur‐
reted, rather thick, whorls twenty in number, con‐
tracted round the upper part, then rather swollen,
transversely seven-ribbed, ribs and interstices striated,
equal, very closely decussated with minute lines of
increase, ﬁrst few whorls two-keeled, keels quickly
disappearing; snowy-white.

GRAY, MSS. British Museum.

Hab. East Coast of Africa; Capt. Owen, R. N.

A genuine snow-white species, rather closely encircled
with neat ridges of equal width with the interstices.

Species 45. (Mus. Brit.)

TURRITELLA GUNNII. Turr. testâ elongato-acuminatâ, soli-
diusculâ, angustâ, anfractibus octodecim, plano-con-
cavis, marginibus tumidiusculis, medio obscurè et sub-
irregulariter liratis et striatis, suturis excavatis; albidâ,
ﬂammis undulatis pallidè fulvescente-fuscis obliquè pictâ,
basi pallidè roseâ.

GUNN’S TURRITELLA. Shell elongately acuminated,
rather solid, narrow, whorls eighteen in number,
ﬂatly concave, margins rather swollen, obscurely and
somewhat irregularly ridged and striated in the middle,
sutures excavated; whitish, obliquely painted with
light fulvous-brown waved ﬂames, base pinkish.

Hab. Van Dieman’s Land; Gunn.

An interesting new species collected by Mr. Ronald
Gunn, an eminent naturalist of Hobart Town. It is a
narrow, sharply acuminated shell, with the whorls ﬂatly
concave, and margined at the edges so as to give an ex‐
cavated appearance to the sutures.

Species 46. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA AQUILA. Turr. testâ pyramidali-turritâ, an-
fractibus quatuordecim aut quindecim, supernè concavo-
declivibus, deinde subobscurè latè bicostatis, undique con-

June, 1849.