TURRITELLA.

PLATE X.

Species 16. (Mus. Banks).

TURRITELLA CONSTRICTA. Turr. testâ turritâ, suturis
profundis, anfractibus duodecim ad quatuordecim, bi-
carinatis, carinis remotè distantibus, interstitio concavo;
sordidè albâ.

THE TIED TURRITELLA. Shell turreted, sutures deep,
whorls twelve to fourteen in number, two-keeled,
keels widely distant, the interstice being concave;
dead white.

Hab.—?

Three specimens of this species, not hitherto described,
are preserved in the Banksian collection of the Linnæan
Society.

Species 47. (Mus. Hanley.)

TURRITELLA FASCIALIS. Turr. testâ lanceolato-acuminatâ,
gracillimâ, anfractibus octodecim, convexis, exiliter
quadriliratis, suturis subcontractis; lutescente, an-
fractuum parte superiori rubido-fasciatâ.

THE BANDED TURRITELLA. Shell lanceolately acumi‐
nated, very slender, whorls eighteen in number, con‐
vex, faintly four-ridged, sutures a little contracted;
yellowish, upper part of the whorls banded with dull
red.

MENKE,—?

Hab. Bay of Montija, Central America (in coarse sand at
the depth of seven fathoms); Cuming.

Distinguished by its slender erect form and ruddy band
beneath the sutures.

Species 48. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA FASTIGIATA. Turr. testâ gracillimo-subulatâ,
tenuiculâ, anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, supernè
contractis, declivibus, deinde rotundatis, undique sub-
tilissimè liratis et striatis, apicem versus bicarinatis;
violaceo alboque pallidè variegatâ, strigis fuscescentibus
obliquis, liris obscure fusco punctatis vel articulatis.

THE MINARET TURRITELLA. Shell very slenderly sub‐
ulate, rather thin, whorls eighteen to twenty in
number, contracted round the upper part, slanting,
then rounded, very ﬁnely ridged and striated, two-
keeled towards the apex; variegated with pale violet

and white, and oblique brownish streaks, ridges
dotted or articulated with light brown.

ADAMS and REEVE, Moll. Voy. Samarang.

Hab. China Seas; Belcher.

The oblique clouded streaks of painting are character‐
istic in this species.

Species 49. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA EROSA. Turr. testâ turritâ, anfractibus de‐
cem ad duodecim, subplano-convexis, spiraliter quadri-
sulcatis, sulcis angustis, subprofundis; fuscescente,
infra suturas albicante.

THE ERODED TURRITELLA. Shell turreted, whorls ten
to twelve in number, rather ﬂatly convex, spirally
four-grooved, grooves narrow, rather deep; light
brown, whitish beneath the sutures.

COUTHOUY, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. ii. p. 103. pl. 3.
f. 1.

Hab. Massachusetts Bay, United States (found in sto‐
machs of ﬁshes); Gould, De Kay.

Generally more or less eroded, the apex being semi-
transparent and somewhat papillary.

Species 50. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA MONILIFERA. Turr. testâ acuminato-pyra-
midali, basi depresso-concavâ, et acutè angulatâ, an-
fractibus quindecim, carinâ latiusculâ infra suturas
medio concavis, deinde bi-liratis; rosaceo-albâ, carinâ
punctis distantibus obliquis rufescente-fuscis ornatâ.

THE NECKLACE TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately pyra‐
midal, depressly concave and sharply angled at the
base, whorls ﬁfteen in number, with a broad keel
beneath the sutures, concave in the middle, then
two-ridged; pinkish white, keel ornamented with
distant oblique red-brown dots.

ADAMS and REEVE, Moll. Voy. Samarang.

Hab. China Seas; Belcher.

The only painting in this species, beyond its delicate
violet-pink hue, consists in the necklace-like row of red-
brown dots upon the keel.

June, 1849.