TURRITELLA.—PLATE XI.

HOOKER’S TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted,
rather thin, whorls ﬁfteen in number, concavely
swollen in the middle, and conspicuously encircled
throughout with two sharp remote keels, last and
penultimate whorls ﬁnely elevately striated; trans‐
parent-white.

Hab.—?

An extremely interesting species, collected during the
Antarctic Expedition by Capt. Sir James Clark Ross, which
I have the pleasure to name in honour of Dr. Joseph
Hooker, the eminent naturalist of that productive voyage,
and author of the ‘Flora Antarctica.’

Species 62. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA SINUATA. Turr. testâ pyramidali-acuminatâ,
anfractibus quatuordecim, planulatis, spiraliter tenuè
liratis et striatis, aperturâ parviusculâ, labro ampliter
sinuato; fulvescente, zonulâ albidâ rufo-punctatâ infra
suturas.

THE SINUATED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally acu‐
minated, whorls fourteen in number, ﬂattened, spirally
ﬁnely ridged and striated, aperture rather small, lip
largely sinuated; light fulvous colour, having a red-
dotted white zone beneath the sutures.

Hab.—?

Readily distinguished by its dotted painting, and by the
broad sinus of the outer lip.

Species 63. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA RUBESCENS. Turr. testâ acuminato-turritâ,
anfractibus tredecim, spiraliter confertim liratis et
striatis, primis paucis medio carinatis, carinâ cito eva-
nidâ; rubescente.

THE LIGHT-RED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted,

whorls thirteen in number, spirally closely ridged and
striated, the ﬁrst few whorls keeled in the middle,
keel quickly vanishing; light-red.

Hab. Bay of Montija, West Columbia (in coarse sand at
the depth of seven fathoms); Cuming.

All the whorls are somewhat prominent in the middle,
occupied by the keel in the ﬁrst few whorls.

Species 64. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA CINGULIFERA. Turr. testâ gracili, turritâ,
anfractibus ad duodecim, supernè contractis, deinde ro-
tundatis, spiraliter elevato-striatis; albâ, infra suturas
fuscescente.

THE ENCIRCLED TURRITELLA. Shell slenderly turreted,
whorls about twelve in number, contracted round the
upper part, then rounded, spirally elevately striated;
white, light brown beneath the sutures.

SOWERBY, Tankerville Cat. App. p. 14.

Turritella fragilis, Kiener.
Hab. Port Essington; Jukes.

The light brown colouring immediately beneath the
sutures is a prominent character of this species.

Species 65. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA INCISA. Turr. testâ subpyramidali-acuminatâ.
basi concavo-angulatâ, anfractibus duodecim, plano-con-
vexis, spiraliter undique creberrimè inciso-striatis;
cinereo-fuscâ.

THE ENGRAVED TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat pyrami‐
dally acuminated, concavely angled at the base, whorls
twelve in number, ﬂatly convex, spirally very closely
marked with engraved striæ; ash-brown.

Hab. Sidney (in deep water); Strange.

Closely but irregularly engraved throughout.