MESALIA.

PLATE I.

Genus MESALIA, Gray.

Testa acuminato-turrita, basi rotundata, columellâ plano-con-
tortâ, recedente, aperturœ margine infra columellam
leviter sinuato et reﬂexo.

Shell acuminately turreted, rounded at the base, columella
ﬂatly twisted, receding, margin of the aperture below
the columella sinuated and reﬂected.

The ﬂattened receding structure of the columella of the
well-known Senegal Turritella (T. brevialis, Lamarck),
Le Mesal of Adanson, induced Mr. Gray to found a genus
for its reception with the name Mesalia, which it is
desirable should be adopted.

It is materially distinguished in this respect from the rest
of the Turritellœ, excepting the little Greenland T. lactea
of Möller, also a Mesalia; and to these may be added
a species (M. Melanioides) from the Cumingian collection,
in which the typical character of the genus is yet more
strongly developed, and which Mr. Cuming had already
put aside in his cabinet as a new form.

Species 1. (Mus. Brit.)

MESALIA LACTEA. Mes. testâ turritâ, anfractibus tredecim,
longitudinaliter sub-obliquè et obesè plicato-costatis,
lineis impressis inter costas, lirâ angustâ infernè funi-
culatis, aperturâ parvâ; opaco-albâ.

THE MILK-WHITE MESALIA. Shell turreted, whorls
thirteen in number, longitudinally rather obliquely
and stoutly plicately ribbed, with impressed lines in
the interstices, corded round the lower part with a
narrow ridge, aperture small; opake-white.

Turritella lactea, Möller, Index Moll. Grœnlandiæ, p. 9.

Hab. Greenland.

Möller describes this shell as being a diaphanous white,
but the specimens in the British Museum are rather opake.

Species 2. (Fig. 2 a, b, Mus. Hanley; and Pl. V.
Fig. 16 a, b, of Turritella, Mus. Cuming.)

MESALIA BREVIALIS. Mes. testâ subabbreviato-turritâ,
crassâ, ponderosâ, anfractibus quindecim, rotundatis,
supernè obscurè canaliculatis, spiraliter quinqueliratis,
liris superioribus fortioribus, inferioribus interdum ob-
soletis, interstitiis undique subtilissimè et creberrimè
striatis, columellâ plano-contortâ, recedente, margine

subreﬂexo; albâ, vel cinereo-albâ, vel sordidè olivaceâ,
interdum strigis fuscescentibus indistinctè pallidè tinctâ.

THE SHORT MESALIA. Shell somewhat abbreviately
turreted, thick, ponderous, whorls ﬁfteen in number,
rounded, obscurely channelled round the upper part,
spirally ﬁve-ridged, upper ridges stronger, lower
sometimes obsolete, interstices very ﬁnely and closely
striated throughout, columella ﬂatly twisted, receding
and a little reﬂected at the edge; white, or ashy-white,
or dirty olive, sometimes faintly stained with brownish
streaks.

Turritella brevialis, Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’
edit.) vol. ix. p. 256.

Le Mesal, Adanson.
Turritella Mesal, Deshayes.
Mesalia sulcata, Gray.
Eadem var. Turritella varia, Kiener.
Hab. West Coast of Africa.

An extremely variable species in size and general aspect,
but always distinctly characterized throughout by its one
idea of sculpture. Each whorl is encircled by nine thread‐
like ridges, ﬁve of which remain exposed to view; of these
the two uppermost are more prominently developed than
the rest and form a slight channel. The interstices are
sculptured throughout with exceedingly ﬁne, close-set,
sharply deﬁned striæ. In some specimens the shell is of
a dark dirty olive colour and the ridges lighter, others are
of a light stone colour without any distinction of tone in
the ridges. Of the smaller varieties one is of a dark lead
colour, another snowy white and more elongated, with the
ridges almost obsolete; and a third equally white with the
ridges like so many ﬁne opake threads.

Lamarck, when ﬁrst describing this species according to
the present system of nomenclature, apparently from a
worn specimen, did not recognise in it Le Mesal of Adanson
(Voyage en Sénégal, p. 159. pl. 10. f. 7); and M. Deshayes
was unable to identify Turritella brevialis in his edition
of the ‘Animaux sans vertèbres’ for want of access to the
Lamarckian collection, reserved by M. Kiener for the use
of his ‘Iconographie des coquilles vivantes;’ in which work
the identiﬁcation of T. brevialis with Adanson’s Mesal
has been recently made known.

Unacquainted with Lamarck’s T. brevialis, from his
not referring to Adanson’s ﬁgure, M. Deshayes described
Le Mesal anew. It is much to be regretted that the
learned editor of the ‘Anim. sans vert.’ was not allowed

June, 1849.