CASSIDARIA.

PLATE I.

Genus CASSIDARIA, Lamarck.

Testa ovoidea, ventricosa, ad basin attenunata, in canalem
curvum, posticè ascendentem, desinens, aperturâ longi‐
tudinali, labro columellari lœvi, latissimè eﬀuso, labro
externo reﬂexo, intus crenato. Operculum corneum.

Shell ovoid, ventricose, attenuated at the base, ending in
a posteriorly ascending recurved canal, aperture
longitudinal, columellar lip smooth, very widely
eﬀused, outer lip reﬂected, crenated within. Oper‐
culum horny.

The genus Cassidaria is one of the very few to which
no species have been added since the time of Lamarck.
It is, indeed, reduced within narrower limits; for whilst,
on the one hand, the researches of Cuming, Quoy, Belcher,
D’Orbigny and others, compassing the four quarters of
the globe, have failed to discover any new species; the
Lamarckian genus has been reduced, on the other hand,
by the distribution of two to form the genus Oniscia, and
of another to the genus Triton. Three recent species only
remain to the genus, and it is a matter of opinion amongst
authors whether two of these, both inhabiting the shores
of the Mediterranean, are not varieties of the same speciﬁc
type.

The Cassidaria diﬀers from Cassis, to which it is most
nearly allied, by its oval inﬂated growth, projecting spire,
and eﬀused aperture, ending in a slightly recurved canal.
The locality of the third species is not known.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIDARIA TYRRHENA. Cass. testâ snbpyriformi-ovatâ,
supernè ventricosâ, anfractibus liris regularibus undique
crebrè funiculatis, ultimo supernè angulato, ad angulum
compressè nodoso, supra exiliter obliquè plicato, aper‐
turâ elongato-oblongâ, labris obsoletè crenatis; fulves-
cente-spadiceâ, aperturâ albâ.

THE TUSCAN CASSIDARIA. Shell somewhat pyramidally
ovate, ventricose round the upper part, whorls closely
corded throughout with regular ridges, last whorl
angled at the upper part, compressly noduled at the
angle, faintly obliquely plicated above, aperture elon-
gately oblong, lips obsoletely crenulated; light ful‐
vous bay, aperture white.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. vii. p. 8.
Buccinum Tyrrhenum, Chemnitz.

Cassidea Tyrrhena, Bruguière.
Buccinum echinophorum, var. Gmelin.
Buccinum ochroleucum, Gmelin.
Cassidaria echinophora, Deshayes.
Hab. Mediterranean.

Dr. Philippi and M. Deshayes are of opinion that this
shell, of which there is an accurate representation in
Chemnitz ‘Conchylien Cabinet,’ vol. x. p. 153. f. 1461–2,
is a smooth variety of the well-known C. echinophora which
follows. It is remarkably distinguished by its angular
pyriform growth, and I have not seen any specimen which
may be said to represent a state intermediate between this
and the commoner form, of which specimens with few or
no nodules are frequently mistaken for it.

Species 2. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIDARIA ECHINOPHORA. Cass. testâ oviformi, vel
globoso-ovatâ, transversim medio costatâ, supra el infra
tenuiliratâ, costis planulatis, plus minusve nodosis, lirâ
parvâ intermediâ, labro externo subincrassato, intus
crenato; fulvescente-albâ, ferrugineo-fusco plus minusve
tinctâ.

THE PRICKLY CASSIDARIA. Shell egg-shaped or glo-
bosely ovate, transversely ribbed in the middle, ﬁnely
ridged above and below, ribs rather ﬂattened, more
or less nodose, with a small intermediate ridge, outer
lip somewhat thickened, crenated within; light ful‐
vous white, more or less stained with rusty brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit) vol. x. p. 7.

Buccinum echinophorum, Linnæus.
Cassidea echinophora, Bruguière.
Echinora tuberculosa, Schumacher.
Buccinum strigosum, Gmelin.
Buccinum nodosum, Dillwyn.
Cassidaria Tyrrhena, var., Philippi.

Hab. Mediterranean.

The large noduled specimen represented at Fig. 2 b,
suﬃciently shows that the growth of this species is ex‐
tremely variable; still, I have not observed in any variety
the peculiar angulated pear-shape which distinguishes the
C. Tyrrhena.

Species 3. (Mus. Brit.)

CASSIDARIA STRIATA. Cass. testâ subpyriformi-ovatâ,

August, 1849.