EGLISIA.

PLATE I.

Genus EGLISIA, Gray.

Testa elongato-turrita, anfractibus numerosis, suturis de-
pressis, columellâ plano-incrassatâ, basi quadrato-angu-
latâ, aperturâ parvâ, rotundatâ, marginibus ferè con-
junctis, non reﬂexis.

Shell elongately turreted, whorls numerous, sutures de‐
pressed, columella ﬂatly thickened, squarely angled
at the base, aperture small, rounded, margins almost
joined, not reﬂected.

The necessity for instituting a genus for the reception
of the Turritella spirata of the Tankerville Catalogue,
was ﬁrst made known by Mr. Sowerby in his description of
that remarkable shell. “Two circumstances,” says the
author of the Appendix, Tank. Cat. p. xiv., “are remarkable
in this shell, the broad ﬂat depression in the upper part of
the volutions, and the straight edge of the outer lip.
Aware that it is generically distinguished by this latter
circumstance from Turritella, we should not have added
it to this genus, had there been any more convenient
place for it.”

Mr. Gray proposed the name Eglisia, and I am able to
conﬁrm the value of the genus by the addition of two more
equally characteristic species, one collected by Mr. Cuming
at the Philippine Islands, another dredged by Sir Edward
Belcher in the China Seas.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

EGLISIA SPIRATA. Egl. testâ pyramidali-turritâ, anfrac-
tibus ad duodecim, supernè peculiariter plano-depressis,
ad suturas concavo-excavatis, spiraliter subobtusè liratis;
albidâ, fulvescente-fusco obliquè inquinatâ et variegatâ.

THE SPIRAL EGLISIA. Shell pyramidally turreted, whorls
about twelve in number, peculiarly ﬂatly depressed
round the upper part, concavely excavated at the
sutures, spirally somewhat obtusely ridged; whitish,
obliquely stained and variegated with fulvous brown.

Turritella spirata, Sowerby, Tankerville Catalogue, App.
p. xiv.

Turbo suturalis, Gray (in Wood Index Test.)
Eglisia suturalis, Gray (in Brit. Mus.)
Turritella suturalis, Kiener.

Hab. Island of St. Thomas, West Indies; Sowerby.

I am not aware of any other specimens of this re‐
markable species, than those spoken of by Mr. Sowerby in
the Tankerville Catalogue, as having been purchased in the
old collection of Mr. Humphrey. Of these the one here
ﬁgured is in the Cumingian collection, and another is in
the British Museum.

Species 2. (Mus. Cuming.)

EGLISIA LANCEOLATA. Egl. testâ lanceolato-turritâ, an‐
fractibus ad octodecim, rotundatis, subobscurè octo-
liratis, interstitiis sub lente tenuissimè cancellatis,
suturis profundè excavatis, aperturâ parvâ, rotundâ;
fulvescente-spadiceâ.

THE LANCEOLATE EGLISIA. Shell lanceolately turreted,
whorls about eighteen in number, rounded, rather
obscurely eight-ridged, interstices, beneath the lens,
very ﬁnely cancellated, sutures deeply excavated,
aperture small, rounded; light fulvous bay.

Hab. Pasacao, Island of Luzon (in sandy mud at the
depth of ten fathoms); Cuming.

An interesting species collected by Mr. Cuming at the
above-named locality, of the same generic type as the
preceding, the sutures having the same excavated struc‐
ture, though in an inferior degree.

Species 3. (Mus. Belcher.)

EGLISIA TRICARINATA. Egl. testâ acutè turritâ, anfrac‐
tibus ad octodecim, supernè contractis et declivibus,
deinde tricarinatis, sub lente longitudinaliter creber-
rimè et tenuissimè cancellato-striatis, aperturâ parvâ,
rotundâ; sordidè cinereo-fuscâ.

THE THREE-KEELED EGLISIA. Shell sharply turreted,
whorls about eighteen in number, contracted and
slanting round the upper part, then three-keeled,
beneath the lens very ﬁnely longitudinally cancel-
lately striated, aperture small, round; dull ashy-
brown.

ADAMS AND REEVE, Moll. Voy. Samarang.

Hab. China Seas; Belcher.

The cancellated structure of this species is simlar to
that of the preceding.

June, 1849.