ONISCIA.

PLATE I.

Genus ONISCIA, Sowerby.

Testa oblongo-ovata, basi emarginata, sub-recurva, spirâ
brevi, nunc acuminatâ, nunc depressâ, aperturâ elongatâ,
angustâ, usque ad spiram extensâ, labro columellari
latissimè dilatato-reﬂexo et granulato, labro externo
denticulato, incrassato, plerumque medio subcoarctato.

Shell oblong-ovate, emarginated and a little recurved at
the base, spire sometimes acuminated, sometimes
depressed, aperture elongated, narrow, extending as
far as the spire, columellar lip very broadly dilately
reﬂected and granulated, outer lip denticulated,
thickened, generally slightly contracted in the middle.

The genus Oniscia founded by Mr. Sowerby in his
‘Genera of Shells’ on the Linnæan Strombus oniscus (Cassi-
daria oniscus, Lamarck) has been universally adopted, as
representing a very characteristic and well-deﬁned assem‐
blage of characters. They were ﬁrst remarked on the
appearance of the well-known Oniscia cancellata of the
China Seas, and their importance has been fully conﬁrmed
by the discovery of several interesting new species.

The Onisciœ are closely related to the Cassidariæ, but
are uniformly of smaller size, of more solid growth, with
more elaborate sculpture, and remarkably distinguished by
a wide-spread dilation of the columellar. The outer lip is
also peculiar in being denticulated within.

Of the localities known of the Onisciœ three are from
the Western, two from the Eastern world.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

ONISCIA ONISCUS. Onisc. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, crassâ,
apice nunc obtusâ, nunc mucronatâ, costis tribus vel
quatuor tuberculatis cinctâ, tuberculis interdum bipar-
titis, labro incrassato, tumido, liris interruptis irregu-
laribus intus denticulato; albidâ, maculis perpaucis
punctisque numerosis cœruleo-nigris out fuscis aspersâ,
labris interdum albis, interdum eximiè rosaceis.

THE WOOD-LOUSE ONISCIA. Shell oblong-ovate, thick,
sometimes obtuse, sometimes pointed at the apex,
encircled with three or four tuberculated ribs, tu‐
bercles sometimes divided into two, lip thickened,
swollen, denticulated within with irregular interrupted
ridges; whitish, sprinkled with a few spots and
numerous dots of brown or blue-black, lips sometimes
white, sometimes delicate pink.

SOWERBY, Genera of Shells, Oniscia, f. 4.

Strombus oniscus, Linnæus.
Eadem var. Strombus Lamarckii, Deshayes.

Hab. Jamaica; Gosse.

The shell selected for illustration is the pink-lip variety
to which M. Deshayes has given the name O. Lamarckii.
The white varieties are usually of smaller dimensions,
but the characters are in all respects the same.

Species 2. (Mus. Cuming.)

ONISCIA STROMBIFORMIS. Onisc. testâ subtrigono-pyri-
formi, spirâ elevatâ, apice mucronatâ, anfractibus su-
pernè angulatis, costis numerosis angustis nodosis cinctis,
labro columellari minutè granulato, labro externo lirato-
denticulato, lirâ brevi interruptâ interveniente; albâ,
rufo-fusco maculatâ et punctatâ, labris albis.

THE STROMBUS-SHAPED ONISCIA. Shell somewhat tri‐
angularly pear-shaped, spire elevated, pointed at the
apex, whorls angulated round the upper part, en‐
circled with many narrow nodulous ridges, colu‐
mellar lip minutely granulated, outer lip denticulated
with ridges, with a short interrupted ridge in the
interstices; white, spotted and dotted with red brown,
lips white.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842. p. 91. Conch. Syst. vol. ii.
p. 210. pl. 253. f. 1.

Hab. Honduras; Dyson.

Distinguished from the proceeding species by its slighter
growth, more elevated spire, and ﬁnely noduled narrow
ribs.

Species 3. (Mus. Dennison.)

ONISCIA EXQUISITA. Onisc. testâ subtrigono-ovatâ, spirâ
brevi, acutâ, anfractibus supernè concavo-depressis,
tuberculis papillaribus undique cingulatis, lirâ obscurâ
interveniente, labro columellari latè expanso, granulis
valdè irregularbus, labro externo incrassatim reﬂexo,
liris brevibus dentiformibus irregulariter munito;
albidâ, aurantio-fusco hic illic sparsim punctatâ et pone
labrum trimaculatâ, labris pallidè purpureo-rosaceis,
apice rufo.

THE EXQUISITE ONISCIA. Shell somewhat triangularly
ovate, spire short, sharp, whorls concavely depresssed,

August, 1849.