ONISCIA.—PLATE I.

encircled throughout with papillary tubercles, with
an obscure ridge intervening, columellar lip broadly
expanded, granules very irregular, outer lip thickly
reﬂected, furnished with short dentiform ridges;
whitish, sparingly dotted, and, behind the lip, three-
spotted with orange-brown, lips light purple-pink,
apex red.

ADAMS and REEVE, Zool. Voy. Samarang, Moll. pl. 5.
ﬁg 3, a and b.

Hab. Sooloo Archipelago (outside a coral reef near the
city of Sooloo, in sandy mud at the depth of from
sixteen to twenty fathoms); Belcher.

The surface of this very characteristic species, collected
by Captain Sir Edward Belcher during the voyage of the
Samarang, is covered with papillary tubercles in rows of
about ten, the same number longitudinally as transversely.
The columellar and outer lips are delicately enamelled of a
livid purplish pink colour.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

ONISCIA CANCELLATA. Onisc. testâ oblongo-ovatâ, basi
attenuatâ, plus minusve pyriformi, spirâ elevatiusculâ,
acutâ, anfractibus supernè rotundatis, longitudinaliter
compressè plicatis, costis numerosis angustis crenulatis
transversim cancellatis, costis ad juncturas squamatis,
labro columellari fortiter granulato, externo fortiter
dentato; albidâ aut fuscescente-albâ, fusco trifasciatâ.

THE CANCELLATED ONISCIA. Shell oblong-ovate, atten‐
uated at the base, more or less pear-shaped, spire
rather elevated, sharp, whorls rounded at the upper
part, longitudinally compressly plicated, cancellated
transversly with numerous narrow crenulated ribs,
ribs squamate at the crossing, columellar lip strongly
granulated, outer lip strongly toothed; whitish or
brownish white, encircled with three brown bands.

SOWERBY, Genera of Shells, Oniscia, f. 1 to 3.
Cassidaria cancellata, Kiener (not of Lamarck).

Hab. China Seas.

According to the testimony of M. Deshayes, the fossil
Cassidaria cancellata of Lamarck is a diﬀerent species from
this, with which it has been usually identiﬁed.

Species 5. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

ONISCIA TUBERCULOSA. Onisc. testâ cylindraceo-oblongâ,
crassâ, spirâ nunc convexâ, nunc depresso-planâ, apice
acntè mucronatâ, anfractibus quinquecostatis, costis sub-
distantibus, tuberculatis, interstitiis subtiliter liratis,

labro columellari exiliter granulato, externo medio
coarctato, intus denticulato; intensè nigrâ, irregu-
lariter albipunctatâ, aperturœ fauce albâ, interdum
vividè croceâ.

THE TUBERCLED ONISCIA. Shell cylindrically oblong,
thick, spire sometimes convex, sometimes depressly
ﬂattened, pointed at the apex, whorls ﬁve-ribbed,
ribs rather distant, tuberculated, interstices ﬁnely
ridged, columellar lip faintly granulated, outer lip
contracted in the middle, denticulated within; deep
black, dotted irregularly with white, interior of the
aperture white, sometimes bright saﬀron.

SOWERBY, Genera of Shells, Oniscia, p. 2. Reeve, Conch.
Syst. vol. ii. p. 211, pl. 253, f. 2 to 4.

Hab. Fig. a. Gallapagos Island (in clefts of rocks at low
water); Cuming. Fig. 2 b, Gulf of California.

Of the two specimens here ﬁgured from Mr. Cuming’s
collection, that represented at Fig. 5 a is but indistinctly
granulated, the spire is depressly ﬂattened, and the aper‐
ture is of bright saﬀron colour. In the specimen repre‐
sented at Fig. 5 b, the spire is convexly raised, and there
is no indication of colour in the aperture. The granules
are numerous, but extremely superﬁcial.

Species 6. (Mus. Dennison.)

ONISCIA DENNISONI. Onisc. testâ trigono-ovatâ, spirâ
acutâ, anfractibus supernè angulatis, longitudinaliter
compressè plicatis, costis numerosis angustis cancellatis,
costis ad juncturas squamatis, labro columellari latè
expanso, minutè granulato, externo liris subirregularibus
denticulato; albidâ, fusco subobsurè tri-quadrifasciatâ,
labro columellari intensè sanguineo-rutilo, granulis
albidis, labro externo rufescente, liris, albidis.

DENNISON’S ONISCIA. Shell triangularly ovate, spire
sharp, whorls angled round the upper part, longitudi‐
nally compressly plicated, cancellated with numerous
narrow ribs, which are squamate at the crossing,
columellar lip broadly expanded, minutely granulated,
outer lip denticulated with somewhat irregular ridges;
whitish, rather obscurely three- or four-banded, colu‐
mellar lip very deep blood-red, granules whitish,
outer lip light red, with the ridges whitish.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842. p. 21. Conch. Syst. vol. ii.
p. 211. pl. 253. f. 5 and 6.

Hab.—?

This species approaches very closely in form and detail
of sculpture to the O. cancellata, but is especially remark‐
able on account of the intensely red colouring of the
columella.