EBURNA.—PLATE I.

REEVE, Pro. Zool. Soc. 1842, p. 200; Conch. Syst.
pl. 271. f. 1.

Hab. Japan; Dr. Siebold.

Allied in form to E. Zeylanica, but less umbilicated,
and less sharply acuminated; whilst the design of the
painting is very characteristic.

Species 4. (Mus. Cuming.)

EBURNA AUSTRALIS. Eburn. testâ ovatâ, imperforatâ,
spirâ breviusculâ, suturis latè depresso-canaliculatis,
basi leviter sulcatâ, sulcis quinque vel sex, deinde sulco
unico subprofundo, suprà punctato-striatâ, anfractibus
quinque; lutescente-albidâ, maculis grandibus rufo-
fuscis juxta suturas, perpaucis minoribus infrà.

THE SOUTHERN EBURNA. Shell ovate, imperforated,
spire rather short, sutures broadly depressly chan‐
nelled, sculptured at the base with ﬁve or six light
grooves, then with a single rather deep one, above
striated with ﬁne punctures, whorls ﬁve in number;
yellowish white, with a row of red-brown spots next
the sutures, and a very few smaller ones beneath.

SOWERBY, Conch. Illustrations, f. 5.

Hab. Australia.

The Eburna australis has been confounded by many
authors with the Cancellaria spirata of Lamarck, believing
them to be identical. M. Deshayes goes so far as to say
that Mr. Sowerby has represented the same shell in two
places (Conch, Illus. Cancellaria, f. 25 and Eburna, f. 5.),
suiting the conﬁguration of the columella in each instance
to the character of the genus. Such is not the case. The
three-plaited Cancellaria spirata and the Eburna australis
are two very distinct shells, the latter being of more solid
growth, smooth towards the apex, and furnished with an
arched callous columella, characteristic of the genus to
which it has been referred in the absence of any more
suitable place.

Species 5. (Mus. Cuming.)

EBURNA AMBULACRUM. Eburn. testâ ovatâ, umbilicatâ,
spirœ suturis profundè canaliculatis, anfractibus sub-
plano-convexis,lœvibus; albidâ, fuscescente-spadiceo
creberrimè maculatâ et nebulato-tinctâ, apice nigri-
cante.

THE GALLERY EBURNA. Shell ovate, umbilicated, sutures
of the spire deeply channelled, whorls rather ﬂatly
convex, smooth; whitish, very closely spotted and
clouded with brownish bay, apex blackish.

SOWERBY, Tankerville Catalogue, App. p. xxii.

Hab. Isle of Mindanao, Philippines (in sandy mud at the
depth of twelve fathoms); Cuming.

Very closely allied to the E. spirata, but always readily
distinguished by its smaller size, darker colour, and more
closely clouded spots.

Species 6. (Mus. Cuming.)

EBURNA AREOLATA. Eburn. testâ ovato-ventricosâ, spirâ
elevatâ, profundè et ampliter umbilicatâ, convexis,
lœvibus, supernè obtusè depressis, subcanaliculatis, vix
angulatis; albâ, maculis rufo-castaneis grandibus ob-
longo-quadratis subundatis seriatim cinctâ.

THE SQUARE-SPOTTED EBURNA. Shell ovately ventricose,
spire elevated, deeply and largely umbilicated, convex,
smooth, obtusely depressed round the upper part,
slightly channelled, scarcely angulated; white, en‐
circled with rows of large oblong-square slightly-
waved reddish-chestnut spots.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 235.

Buccinum spiratum var., Bruguière.
Eburna tessellata, Swainson.

Hab. Ceylon.

The spots are disposed in three rows, the lowest being
concealed in all but the last whorl, by the superposition
of one whorl upon the other.

Species 7. (Mus. Cuming.)

EBURNA SPIRATA. Eburn. testâ ovatâ, parum umbilicatâ,
spirâ acutâ, suturis profundè canaliculatis, anfractibus
subplano-convexis; albâ, fulvescente-spadiceo maculatâ,
maculis medianis minoribus, apice cœruleo-nigricante.

THE SPIRAL EBURNA. Shell ovate, but little umbilicated,
spire sharp, sutures deeply channelled, whorls rather
ﬂatly convex; white, spotted with fulvous bay,
middle spots the smaller, apex bluish black.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 234.
Buccinum spiratum, Linnæus.

Hab. Ceylon. Philippines.

An interesting variety of this well-known species was
collected during the voyage of the Samarang, in which
the spots were smaller and of much darker colour.

Species 8. (Mus. Cuming.)

EBURNA ZEYLANICA. Eburn. testâ ovato-conicâ, profundè
et ampliter umbilicatâ, spirâ acuminatâ, suturis nun-
quam canaliculatis, anfractibus convexo-declivibus, lœvi-
gatis; albâ, maculis grandibus sinuatis fulvo-spadiceis