EBURNA.

PLATE I.

Genus EBURNA, Lamarck.

Testa ovata vel ovato-conoidea, umbilicata, umbilico amplo,
infrà canaliculato, interdum impleto, spirœ suturis
nunc simplicibus, nunc profundè canaliculatis, aperturâ
basi emarginatâ, plerumque supernè canaliculatâ, labro
columellari incrassato, calloso, externo simplici. Oper‐
culum parvum, acuminatum.

Shell ovate or ovately conoid, umbilicated, umbilicus large,
channelled beneath, sometimes ﬁlled up, sutures of
the spire simple or very deeply channelled, columellar
lip thickened, callous, outer lip simple. Operculum
small, acuminated.

The name Eburna, signifying ivory, is not very appro‐
priate for the present genus, inasmuch as it was founded
on the polished E. glabrata of Lamarck, which proves to
be an Ancillaria, almost entirely enveloped by the soft
parts, whilst the species that remain are distinguished for
having a dark thick epidermis. The animal, of which
drawings have been published in the Mollusca of the
Voyage of the Samarang and of Le Bonite, approaches so
near to Buccinum, that M. Deshayes is disposed to return
rather to the views of Bruguière and Linnæus; it will,
however, be readily acknowledged that there is a marked
association of generic character in the objects under con‐
sideration. They are all largely umbilicated, the umbilicus
being sometimes ﬁlled up, and are devoid of sculpture.
The aperture is alike in all, and the colouring and pattern
are peculiar, very similar throughout, yet varying in a
manner suﬃciently constant in each species to be regarded
of considerable speciﬁc importance.

It is perhaps scarcely necessary to refer to M. Kiener’s
remarks that E. papillosa and Valentiana are varieties of
E. spirata, and that E. ambulacrum is a variety of E. lutosa
(ﬁgured as E. spirata var.). This is a grave mistake;
the author is not, unfortunately, acquainted with the
species. It will also be found on reference to Sp. 4, that
the E. australis is not identical with Lamarck’s Cancellaria
spirata as generally supposed; whilst E. plumbea is re‐
ferred to the genus Monoceros.

The Eburnœ are all inhabitants of the Eastern hemis-
phere.

Species 1. (Mus. Brit.)

EBURNA PAPILLARIS. Eburn. testâ, oblongo-conoideâ,
imperforatâ, spirâ elevatâ, apice papillari, suturis sim-

plicibus, anfractibus subrotundatis, supernè obtusè de-
pressis, vix angulatis; albâ, fusco undique punctatâ.

THE PAPILLARY EBURNA. Shell oblong-conoid, imper‐
forated, spire raised, papillary at the apex, sutures
simple, whorls somewhat rounded, obtusely depressed
at the upper part, scarcely angulated; white, dotted
throughout with brown.

SOWERBY, Tankerville Catalogue, App. p. xxii.

Hab. Cape of Good Hope.

I am only aware of four specimens of this very in‐
teresting species; one in the British Museum, one in the
Cumingian collection, one in the collection of Mr. Gaskoin,
and one in some continental cabinet.

Species 2. (Mus. Cuming.)

EBURNA LUTOSA. Eburn. testâ ovatâ, vix umbilicatâ, spirâ
elevatâ, acutâ, anfractibus convexis, lœvibus, supernè
obtusè depressis, vix angulatis; albâ, pallidè spadiceo
promiscuè undulato-nebulatâ.

THE MUDDY EBURNA. Shell ovate, scarcely umbilicated,
spire raised, sharp, whorls convex, smooth, obtusely
depressed above, scarcely angulated; white, promis‐
cuously clouded in a waved manner with light fawn
colour.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes’ edit.) vol. x. p. 235.
Eburna Paciﬁca, Swainson.

Hab. China.

The colouring obtains a less deﬁned pattern in this
species than in any other, and the whorls are more ob‐
tusely depressly rounded at the upper part.

Species 3. (Mus. Cuming )

EBURNA JAPONICA. Eburn. testâ ovato-conoideâ, umbili‐
catâ, apice subpapillari, suturis simplicibus, anfractibus
convexis, lœvibus, supernè vix depressis; albidâ, macu-
lis semilunaribus vel oblongis fulvo-spadiceis, confertis,
biseriatim cinctâ, interstitiis maculis parvis numerosis,
diagonaliter dispositis, notatis.

THE JAPAN EBURNA. Shell ovately conoid, umbilicated,
somewhat papillary at the apex, sutures simple,
whorls convex, smooth, very slightly depressed at
the upper part; whitish, encircled with two rows of
close-set semilunar or oblong fulvous bay spots, the
interstices between which are marked with numerous
small spots ranging diagonally.

June, 1849.