BULIMUS.—PLATE I.

layer of epidermis becomes saturated, and the ground colour of the shell is seen through it; as the moisture evaporates, the epidermis resumes its light appearance. Sir David Brewster, in reply to a letter from Mr. Broderip on this subject, says: "It appears to me, from very careful observations, that the epidermis consists of two layers, and that it is only the upper layer which is porous wherever the pattern is white. These white or porous portions of the epidermis differ from the other parts of the upper layer only in having been deprived of, or in never having possessed, the element which gives transparency to the membrane; in the same manner as hydrophanous opal has become white, from the expulsion of its water of crystallization."

There is little variety in the animal of Bulimus: the Chilian species are mostly of a light colour, and a few in this and the Columbian district are spotted, some having a transparent shell through which the spots are visible. The Philippine species are, without exception, of a sombre olivaceous brown, and dwell in family groups, as it were, among the shady foliage of the branches. Out of a group of some dozen living specimens not more than three or four may be found in an adult state with the lip of the shell reflected. They may be dislodged by shaking the branches, but are chiefly disturbed by the heavy rains with which those islands are at times visited. Mr. Cuming preferred, however, to collect them in dry sunny weather, because he was sure of finding the objects of his search in their shady places of retreat. In the immense sandy tract on the west side of the Andes, the reverse of this condition of nature prevails. The Bulimi are here physically very distinct; some reside all the year round upon the numerous Cacti, but during the dry season, which lasts for several months, they mostly live in a state of torpor, inclosed within their shell by an epiphragm, and buried in the sand or under stones. On the approach of the dews, they revive to a state of animation, and crawl about at night in quest of food.

In illustration of the remarkable drought that prevails in Northern Chili, and of its effect upon molluscous life, I am tempted to repeat, in brief, an anecdote related to me by Mr. Cuming. On the arrival of our friend at the Port of Copiapo in 1829, he discovered the beautiful Bulimus Broderipii in considerable numbers, in the fissures of the rocks that may be seen here and there in the sandy plains of that country. Finding a large proportion of them dead, with the soft parts entirely decomposed, he requested a solitary inhabitant of the place to collect as many specimens as he could pick out alive whilst he occupied himself with botanizing. Returning from his excursion, Mr. Cuming was greatly disappointed to find that among the quantity his Chilian collector had accumulated, there was scarcely one in a living state. Upon remonstrating with him for his inattention, the native replied: "Only wait till the dews come, and they will be all alive again." Mr. Cuming rejoined: "I suppose you mean when it rains." The man, however, in perfect astonishment inquired what he meant; though a sexagenarian, he had never heard of such a thing as rain.

The Bulimi vary in their mode of propagation: fragile species, with the lip of the shell simple, are mostly viviparous, whilst those with a reflected lip are oviparous. The arboreal species of the Philippines deposit their eggs in little clusters on the trees, between two leaves which the animal manages to curl up one upon the other, so as to form a receptacle for their protection; and, so far as Mr. Cuming's observations go, they are all soft like snake's eggs, with the single exception of the B. Mindorensis, in which instance the eggs are calcareous, deposited upon the leaf in parallel rows, each standing perpendicularly on end, attached at the base by a glutinous substance.

The habits of the Bulimi in the two widely remote countries explored by Mr. Cuming, having been treated of in the foregoing remarks, it only remains to speak of them in other parts. Turning to New Holland we are unexpectedly surprised to find that the genus is represented to an extremely limited extent. I am not aware of more than three species having been found in this wide expanse of country, although several fine Helices have been discovered; and in a region of which the Fauna and Flora exhibit so luxuriant and distinctive a character, the scarcity of a genus of so much importance in the Eastern Isles is remarkable. The same observation applies to New Zealand, from whence, so far as the interior of the islands of that group has been visited, no more than one or two species have been received. In Africa the Bulimi are almost as great strangers as in the localities just spoken of; throughout the whole extent of land yet explored of this vast continent, scarcely a dozen species have been obtained. The Bulimi are here replaced by Achatinae. Such a phenomenon may also be observed in some of the islands of the Pacific: in the Sandwich Islands the Bulimi are replaced by the genus Achatinella, and in the Society Islands their place is occupied by the Partulae. In the West Indies the genera Achatina and Glandina seem to prevail. Howsoever abundant is the genus Bulimus in most of the islands of the Eastern Archipelago, few species appear to inhabit the great territories of India and China. On the coast of Borneo a beautiful species was