BULIMUS.

PLATE I.

Genus BULIMUS, Lamarck.

Testa ovata, vel oblonga, vel turrita, anfractibus nunc per-
paucis, ventricosis, nunc plurimis, contractis, aut fragilibus et sèpè translucidis, aut crassiusculis, epidermide interdum duplici indutis; columellá rectá, interdum uniplicatá, basi nunquam truncatá; aperturá nonnunquam dentatá, plerumque integrá, marginibus disjunctis, labro vel simplici, vel reflexo. Operculum nullum.

Shell ovate, oblong, or turreted, whorls sometimes very few and ventricose, sometimes many and contracted, either fragile and often transparent, or rather thick, covered with, sometimes, a double diaphanous epidermis; columella straight, sometimes one-plaited, never truncated at the base; aperture in some instances toothed, generally entire, with the margins disjoined, lip either simple or reflected.

The beautiful forms and varieties of shells produced by those air-breathing mollusks, which, under the generic appellation of Bulimus, constitute an important division of the great tribe of Snails, have become objects of especial interest to the conchologist, owing to the zeal with which a few enterprising scientific travellers have lately penetrated into tropical countries in pursuit of them. It is, however, to the productive exertions of Mr. Cuming that we are mainly indebted for the newer and more attractive subjects of the present monograph. The researches of this ardent naturalist in the arid plains on the west side of the Andes, in the dense woods of West Columbia and Central America, and, more recently, in the luxuriant open forests of the Philippine Islands, whilst they present an instructive contrast, exceed any result the most sanguine collector could have anticipated. In the dry and barren regions of Western Chili and Peru, the Bulimi are mostly small and of comparatively fragile structure; but in the beautiful islands of the Eastern Archipelago, where climate and vegetation combine to favour the growth of arboreal species, the genus is represented with prolific splendour. Mr. Cuming must have truly felt like one transported to the fabled garden of the Hesperides, when beholding the lofty trees of these sunny isles laden with snails of such magnificent proportions. Aladdin, in the Arabian tale, could not, surely, have contemplated the rich clusters of vari-coloured fruit in the garden of the African Magician with more astonishment, nor probably gathered it with more avidity.

"It was in 1836," relates Mr. Broderip, "that Mr. Cuming proceeded to the Philippine Islands by permission of the Queen Regent of Spain, and aided by powerful recommendations from her government, which opened to him the interior of the islands, and caused him to be received with a noble hospitality, equalled only by the warm interest which facilitated his pursuits wherever he arrived and made himself known." Species of which we had but an imperfect knowledge, in consequence of the bad condition in which a stray individual chanced to reach our cabinets, were found in luxuriant plenty, and many new kinds were discovered in their airy solitude in equal abundance. Had De Férussac, the enthusiastic admirer of this tribe, lived to see the glorious series of Bulimi accumulated in the Cumingian collection in different stages of growth, and in the finest state of preservation, from the egg to the adult, he would have been indeed amazed. Sorry am I that the limits of the present work will not allow me to illustrate more than two, or occasionally three, of the typical varieties of each species, and of these but a single view.

The genus Bulimus, as restricted by Lamarck, comprehends an extremely natural group, though presenting important differences of growth and texture; and these variations are peculiarly local. In the Philippine Islands, as just described, the species are of large and rather solid growth with a remarkable hydrophanous epidermis, that is, one permeable by water or other evaporable fluid. On the barren hills of Lima and the sandy plains of Chili and Peru, they are mostly small and delicately formed; in Brazil, the species are remarkable for having the aperture in frequent instances denticulated; and in New Caledonia, Venezuela, New Grenada, and New Hebrides, they not uncommonly exhibit, with equal peculiarity, a plaited Auricula-like columella.

It is a curious feature in the Philippine species that the varieties of pattern, which constitute their chief ornament, reside only in the epidermis. The colours of the shell rarely describe any sort of configuration: they are mostly blended into a uniform tint, over which a fanciful pattern is produced by the epidermis forming a double porous membrane in some places, and a single one only in others, developed, moreover, with the same continuous regularity as the textile marking of a Volute or Cone. This phenomenon is easily detected by immersing the shell in water, when the light portion or upper porous