BULIMUS.
PLATE III.

Species 11. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS WOODIANUS. Bul. testá ovato-conoideá, basi peculiariter concavá, anfractibus quinis subrotundis, suturis impressis, columellá vix intortá; albá, epidermide luteá tenuissimá nitidá indutá, anfractu ultimo ustulato-fusco tincto, conspicue unifasciato, columellá rosaceo-purpurascente, peritremate et circa columellam intensè nigricante-castaneis.
Wood's Bulimus. Shell ovately conoid, peculiarly concave at the base, whorls five in number, somewhat round, sutures impressed, columella slightly twisted; white, covered with a very thin yellow shining epidermis, last whorl stained with burnt brown and conspicuously single banded, columella pinkish purple, peritreme and around the columella deep blackish chesnut.
Lea, Trans. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philadelphia, 1840, pl. xi. f. 5.
Hab. Island of Romblon, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

This species is of a character singularly distinct from the rest of its congeners of the Philippine Isles. No pattern is discernible in the epidermis, which is merely a thin transparent horny layer, nor is there any colour in the shell until it approaches maturity. The specimen represented at Fig. 11. a is entirely colourless; that at 11. b has a burnt brown hue upon the last whorl, which is further distinguished by a dark band and intensely dark chesnut-stained peritreme.

Species 12. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS JUGLANS. Bul. testá ovatá, crassiusculá, anfractibus quinis, rotundato-tumidis, obliquè striatis, aperturá subcontractá, columellá introrsum arcuatá; intensè rufo-castaneá, epidermide tenuiculá, spiraliter lineatá, aperturá peritremate et columellá livido-cærulecentibus.
The Walnut Bulimus. Shell ovate, rather thick, whorls five in number, rotundately tumid, obliquely striated, aperture slightly contracted, columella curved inwards; deep reddish chesnut, epidermis rather thin, spirally lineated, aperture peritreme and columella pale livid blue.
Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842. p. 89.
Hab. Mountains of Igarrotes, northern extremity of the Island of Luzon, Philippines (on leaves of trees); Cuming.

A rather scarce species of solid growth, and of a deep crimson brown colour. The aperture is somewhat contracted, and there is a peculiar twist in the columella. The epidermis is rather slight, disposed in spiral lines.

Species 13. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS FAUNUS. Bul. testá subpyramidali-ovalá, crassiusculá, anfractibus senis, subconvexis, columellá vix rectá; castaneo-fuscá, epidermide simplici, fumo-fuscá, maculis paucis nigricantiibus prope suturas exhibentibus, aperturá cærulecente-albá, columellá rosaceo-purpurascente, peritremate nigricante.
The Fawn Bulimus. Shell somewhat pyramidally ovate, rather thick, whorls six in number, slightly convex, columella nearly straight; chesnut-brown, epidermis simple, smoky-brown, exhibiting a few blackish spots next the sutures, aperture bluish-white, columella pinkish-purple, peritreme blackish.
Helix (Cochlostyla) Faunus, Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840. p. 180.
Hab. San Nicolas, Island of Zebu (on the trees); Cuming.

Of a firm pyramidal growth, singularly characterized by a row of irregular small spots around the sutures.

Species 14. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS TICAONICUS. Bul. testá subgloboso-ovatá, apice obtusá, anfractibus quinis, rotundatis, columellá sub-arcuatá; castaneo-rufá aut flavicante, epidermide in floccis strigisve subdistantibus conspicuis, aut simplici aut spiraliter lineatá, columellá rosaceo-purpurascente, peritremate purpureo-castaneá, nonnunquam pallidá.
The Ticao Bulimus. Shell somewhat globosely ovate, obtuse at the apex, whorls five in number, rounded, columella slightly arched; chesnut-red or pale yellow, with the epidermis in conspicuous, rather distinct flakes or streaks, or simple or spirally lineated, columella pinkish-purple, peritreme purple-chesnut, sometimes pale.
Helix (Cochlostyla) Ticaonica, Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc. 1840.
Hab. Island of Ticao, Philippines (in the woods); Cuming.

This species, like the B. Daphnis of the Island of Zebu, is an extremely variable one, assuming numerous styles of pattern and colour, as may be noticed by the contrast afforded in the specimens selected for representation. All are, however, distinguished by their globose form, and by the important delicate pink colouring of the columella.