PFEIFFER'S BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather ventricose, whorls six in number, somewhat swollen, columella slightly arched; pale yellowish green, with the epidermis in longitudinally waved streaks, columella and aperture bluish white, peritreme and the part round the columella blackish brown.

Bulimus nimbosus, var. d, Broderip.
Hab. Tankay, Island of Negros (on the branches); Cuming.

I have long regarded this shell in my own mind as a species distinct from B. nimbosus; it is composed of one whorl less, is constantly more ventricose, less pyramidally acuminated, and always distinguished by a pale yellowish-green cast of colour with a dark chesnut blotch, nearly black, around the columella, and there is a peculiarity also in the arrangement of the epidermis.

To Dr. Pfeiffer, of Cassel, I dedicate this beautiful species, trusting he will appreciate my desire to do him honour for the service he has rendered to conchological science by his laborious investigation of the great tribe of Helicidae of which the present genus forms a part.

Species 19. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PICTOR. Bul. testá acuminato-oblongá, anfrac-

tibus senis, convexis, columellá subrectá; intensè brunnea, epidermide plus minusve albá, fasciis angustis longitudinalibus undatis, interdum interruptis, pratermittente, aperturá cærulescente, peritremate nigricante-castaneo marginatá.

THE PAINTER BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, whorls six in number, convex, columella nearly straight; rich brown, epidermis more or less white, leaving narrow longitudinally waved dark bands, which are sometimes interrupted, aperture bluish white, peritreme edged with blackish chesnut.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 120.
Hab. Dingle, Province of Ilo Ilo, Island of Penang, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

A richly coloured species, with the epidermis so deposited as to leave a dark, longitudinal, zig-zag stripe at intervals, which is occasionally broken or otherwise interrupted, and has a striking appearance from the epidermis being of a thick, opake-white, satiny hue down one side. The aperture is of clear milky white, and the peritreme is peculiar in having the usual dark colouring matter quite at the edge.