BULIMUS.

PLATE V.

Species 20. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NOBILIS. Bul. testá acuminato-oblongá, anfractibus quinis senisve, subplano-convexis, suturis impressis, columellá rectiusculá; virescente-flavídá, epidermide tenui, zonulas albas sinuatas, longitudinales, nunc distantes, nunc interruptas, exhibente, anfractu ultimo fasciá angustá nigricante-fuscá parte inferiore cingulato, circa columellam nigricante, peritreme albá.

THE NOBLE BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, whorls five or six in number, somewhat flatly convex, sutures impressed, columella rather straight; greenish yellow; epidermis thin, exhibiting longitudinally sinuated opake white zones, sometimes interrupted, sometimes rather distant, last whorl with a narrow dark brown band round the lower part, blackish around the columella, peritreme white.

Hab. Mountains of Igbaras, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

The markings of this beautiful species are similar to those of the B. fulgetrum, the epidermis being thin, excepting where it is disposed in striking lightning-like streaks, darting, so to speak, out of the sutures; in form the shell is constantly distinct, and it is further characterized by a conspicuous dark band.

The epidermis is of a soft, very slight texture, of a uniform reddish brown tint in which light streaks descend here and there from the sutures in very zigzag course, somewhat as in B. fulgetrum but fainter; and, besides this, the shell is of a more acuminated growth, whilst the last whorl is larger and more effused.

Species 21. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ELECTRICUS. Bul. testá subelongato-ovatá, medio ventricosiore, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus senis, subplano-convexis, columellá leviter intortá; livido-rufá, epidermide tenuiculá, strigas pallidas obliquè undatas, valde irregularis, exhibente, aperturá albídá, peritreme rufo-fuscá.

THE ELECTRIC BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately ovate, more ventricose in the middle, spire acuminated, whorls six in number, rather flatly convex, columella slightly twisted; livid red, epidermis rather thin, exhibiting very irregular obliquely waved pale streaks, aperture whitish, peritreme reddish brown.

Bulimus Mindoroensis, var. k, Broderip.
Hab. Puerto Galero, Island of Mindoro, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

If any importance is to be attached to the character and pattern of the epidermis of these shells, there is certainly enough to distinguish this from the B. Mindoroensis.

Species 22. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BICOLORATUS. Bul. testá pyramidali, anfractibus septenis, leviter convexis, columellá subintortá; rufo-brunnea, subtus viridi, epidermide in strigis latiusculis longitudinalibus medio peculiariter interruptis, et inferne bifasciata, peritreme columelláque intensè nigro-fuscis.

THE TWO-COLOURED BULIMUS. Shell pyramidal, whorls seven in number, slightly convex, columella slightly twisted; reddish-brown, green beneath, epidermis in rather broad longitudinal bands, peculiarly interrupted in the middle, and two-banded round the lower part, peritreme and columella deep black-brown.

LEA, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc., vol. vii. p. 459. pl. 11. f. 8.
Bulimus Alberti, Broderip.
Hab. Mount Isarog, Province of Camarinas; and Calanang, Province of Baie, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.

A truly beautiful species, remarkable for its pyramidal growth, and original display of colouring. None of the preceding species have any indication of the bright green which distinguishes the under portion of the body-whorl in this, and the epidermal pattern is equally peculiar.

The shell described by Mr. Broderip under the name of B. onyx appears to be only another state of this, inhabiting the same locality in more lofty situations in the trees. It should be observed that Mr. Cuming collected but two specimens, one in bad condition, the other of immature growth. They are of a singular pupiform shape, but are so nearly allied to the B. bicoloratus in other respects, that the species must be received with caution until further and better means of comparison can be obtained.

The honour intended by the dedication of this finest of the Philippine species, to be conferred on H.R.H. Prince Albert, whose interest in Conchology is handsomely testified by his patronage of the present work, was uncon-