BULIMUS.

PLATE IX.

Species 43. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS CUYOENSIS. Bul. testá pyramidalis-ovatá, umbilicatá, anfractibus quinis, subrotundis, ventricosi-usculis, columellá subarcuatá; ustulato-fuscá vel stramineá, nigro unifasciatá, epidermide strigas conspicuas longitudinales, vir undatas, exhibente, peritremate albo.
THE CUYO BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally ovate, umbilicated, whorls five in number, somewhat rounded, rather ventricose, columella slightly arched; burnt brown or straw-colour, encircled by a black band, epidermis exhibiting conspicuous longitudinal slightly waved streaks, peritreme white.
PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 252.
Bulimus calobaptus, Jonas.
Hab. Islands of Cuyo and Mindoro, Philippines (on the trees); Cuming.
This very pretty species was first described by Dr. Pfeiffer, from a single indifferent specimen collected by Mr. Cuming at the Island of Cuyo; others subsequently arrived from the Island of Mindoro, exceeding the former so greatly in size and beauty, that their identity was not recognised.

Species 44. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS FICTILIS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, sub-umbilicatá, anfractibus senis, convexis, columellá labro-que latè reflexis; rufo-castaneá, epidermide lacteá opacá, strigas paucas longitudinales irregularis praeterrimite, peritremate albo.
THE EARTHEN BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, slightly umbilicated, whorls six in number, convex, lip and columella widely reflected; reddish chesnut, covered with an opake cream-coloured epidermis, leaving a few irregular longitudinal streaks, peritreme white.
BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840.
Hab. Island of Cuyo, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.
I much doubt if the Bulimus larvatus of Broderip, (Sowerby, Conch. Illus. f. 117) is distinct from this; it was described, with some hesitation, from a single specimen in rather indifferent condition, and its specific value has not been confirmed by the receipt of any specimens showing more distinctly the characters which it served to indicate.

Species 45. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS DRYAS. Bul. testá elongato-ovatá, crassiusculá, subumbilicatá, anfractibus senis, convexis, aperturá subcontractá, labro crassiusculo, latè reflexo; eburneá, plerumque castaneo vel fusco-nigrante conspicuè fasciatá, epidermide vix nulla.
THE DRYAS BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, rather thick, slightly umbilicated, whorls six in number, convex, aperture somewhat contracted, lip rather thick, broadly reflected; ivory-white, mostly conspicuously banded with chesnut and brownish-black, with scarcely any epidermis.
BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840.
Bulimus porraceus, Jay.
Testa juvenis, Bulimus paradoxus, Pfeiffer.
Hab. Mansalai, Island of Mindoro, Philippines (in the woods); Cuming.
Of a peculiarly thickened growth compared with other species, giving a widely reflected lip to the aperture, with an extremely slight epidermis. The rich dark chesnut bands with which it is mostly encircled are deeply stained in the shell.

Species 46. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS SYLVANUS. Bul. testá elongato-ovatá, subpyramidalis, anfractibus senis, subventricosis, aperturá sub-effusá, labro latè reflexo; albidá, castaneo-fusco plerumque latifasciatá, epidermide luteá corneá, strigas remotas longitudinales plerumque exhibente, peritremate albo, saepe castaneo vel roseo marginato.
THE SYLVANUS BULIMUS. Shell elongately ovate, somewhat pyramidal, whorls six in number, rather ventricose, aperture slightly effused, lip widely reflected; whitish, generally broadly banded with chesnut-brown and covered with a thin yellow horny epidermis, frequently exhibiting remote longitudinal streaks, peritreme white, often edged with rose or chesnut.
BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840.
Hab. Puerto Portrero, Island of Mindoro (in the woods); Cuming.
This species, it will be observed, is distinguished from the preceding by its lighter growth, deeper colour, and more developed epidermis.