BULIMUS.—PLATE VIII.

The Diana Bulimus. Shell elongately oblong, whorls seven in number, convex, columella slightly twisted; straw-colour, ivory-white towards the apex, epidermis thin, longitudinally streaked and clouded, peritreme very white.
Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1840, p. 157.
Hab. Tanhay, Island of Negros, Philippines (on the leaves of bushes); Cuming.

The chief point of difference between this species and the B. Calista appears to consist in the shining ivory-white peritreme and apex, and it is not unlikely, as Mr. Broderip suggests, that they may merge into one and the same species.

Species 41. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

Bulimus Nympha. Bul. testá subpyramidali-oblongá, anfractibus senis septenisce, convexis, ultimo obscurè carinato; columellá eix arcuatá; rufo-castaneá, epidermide in strigis longitudinalibus, latis, rectiusculis, peritremate purpureo-nigricante.

The Nympth Bulimus. Shell somewhat pyramidally oblong, whorls six or seven in number, convex, the last obscurely keeled; columella scarcely curved; reddish chesnut, epidermis in rather straight broad longitudinal streaks, peritreme purple-black.
Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 89.
Hab. Fig. a, Mount Isarog; Fig. b, Catanauan, Island of Luzon, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

The variety represented at Fig. b is composed of a whorl less than the other, and is of more ventricose proportions. From B. Boholensis, to which this species is perhaps the nearest allied, it differs in being of a more acuminated form, whilst the pretty zig-zag pattern is wanting in the epidermis.

Species 42. (Mus. Cuming.)

Bulimus Siquijorensis. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, tenuiculá, anfractibus senis, subventricosis, ultimo obscurè carinato; columellá rectiusculá, aperturá paululum effusá; flavicante, epidermide tenui, pulcherrimè marmoratá et flammatá, peritremate purpureo-nigricante, apice rufescente-castaneo.

The Siquijor Bulimus. Shell oblong-ovate, rather thin, whorls six in number, rather ventricose, the last obscurely keeled; columella nearly straight, aperture a little effused; yellowish, prettily flamed and marbled, peritreme purple-black, apex reddish chesnut.
Pfeiffer, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 74.
Hab. Island of Siquijor, Philippines (on the leaves of trees); Cuming.

A light ventricose shell, in which the epidermis is disposed in light sharply zig-zag flames, and beneath the keel, which is obscurely developed on the last whorl, there is an interrupted band of indistinct arrow-headed marks.