BULIMUS.

PLATE XV.

Species 86. (Fig. a, b, c, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TUPACII. Bul. testá oblongo-vel elongato-ovatá, subumbilicatá, ventricosá, anfractibus septem, concentricè fortiter et irregulariter striatis, per marginem superiorem plus minusve crenatis, labro vix reflexo; olivaceo-brunneá, interdum quinquefasciatá, raro flavicante, columellá labroque albis,

TUPAC'S BULIMUS. Shell oblong or elongately ovate, slightly umbilicated, ventricose, whorls seven in number, concentrically strongly and irregularly striated, more or less crenated along the upper margin, lip scarcely reflected; olive-brown, sometimes five-banded, rarely pale yellow, lip and columella white.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amer. Mérid. p. 292. pl. 38. f. 1 to 5.

Hab. Provinces of Yungas, Sicasica, and Ayupaya, Bolivia (found on garden walls and on bushes at an elevation of more than 9000 feet); D'Orbigny, Bridges.

The growth of this species varies, as represented by the specimens figured, from a swollen oblong shape to a more elongated form. Sometimes the shell is banded, and it is always more or less crenulated along the margin next the sutures. The colour is mostly a dull livid olive brown, but the specimen Fig. c, collected by Mr. Bridges, is a pale yellow.

KING, Zool. Journ. vol. v. p. 341.

Varietates.

Bulimus Chilensis, Broderip (not of Lesson).
Bulimus pachycheilus, Pfeiffer.

Hab. Chili (under stones and in the sand); King, Cuming, D'Orbigny. Bolivia (under trunks of trees); Bridges.

The B. rosaceus inhabits a wide range of country and is found in very different states. The variety Fig. a, which may be regarded as the typical form, inhabits the environs of Valparaiso; that represented at Fig. b, distinguished by its rude concentric striae, strong crenulations, and warm orange colouring of the lip and interior, was collected in great plenty and with little or no variation at Huasco, Chili; and at Cocapata, Bolivia, a variety of still larger size occurs of thin light growth with scarcely any indication of crenulations or striae. At Huasco, the species was also collected by Mr. Bridges in a state quite distinct from these, of much smaller dimensions, paler in colour, and of a minutely granulated satiny hue. This is the B. pachycheilus of Pfeiffer, and apparently the shell from Bahia Blanca taken by D'Orbigny for the B. nucleus with which he does not seem to be acquainted. Another condition of the B. rosaceus is that of similar size from Coquimbo, described by Mr. Sowerby as a distinct species under the name B. Chilensis. It should be observed that the eggs of these smaller species are of a more oblong form than those of the first mentioned.

Species 87. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ROSACEUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, crassiusculá, ventricosá, striatá aut sub lente minutissimè granulatá, spirá obtuso-depressá, anfractibus quinque, per marginem superiorem plus minusve crenulatis, labro latiusculo, reflexo; olivaceo-viridi, apicem versus rosaceá, epidermide tenuissimá sápe marmoratá, columellá labroque albidis, interdum rosaceo-aurantiis.

THE ROSE-COLOURED BULIMUS. Shell oblong ovate, rather thick, ventricose, striated or very minutely granulated under the lens, spire obtusely depressed, whorls five in number, more or less crenulated along the upper margin, lip rather broad, reflected; olive-green, rose-coloured towards the apex, frequently marbled with a very light epidermis; lip and columella white, sometimes rose-orange.

KING, Zool. Journ. vol. v. p. 341.

Species 88. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PHASIANELLUS. Bul. oblongo-ovatá, crassiusculá, anfractibus quinque, ventricosis, leviter striatis, per marginem superiorem in anfractu ultimo et penultimo crenulatis, columellá subintorta, labro incrassato, reflexo; violascente-griseá, maculis transversis parvis numerosis irregularibus violaceo-fuscescentibus pictá, columellá labroque intensè violaceis.

THE PHEASANT-MARKED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather thick, whorls five in number, ventricose, slightly striated, crenulated along the upper margin in the last and penultimate whorls, columella a little twisted, lip thickened, reflected; violet-grey, painted with numerous irregular small transverse blotches of violet-brown, lip and columella deep violet.