Of this very characteristic and pretty species, collected in perfection by Mr. Bridges, M. D'Orbigny found but two dead specimens in a damp ravine near the banks of the Rio San Mateo, Cochabamba, Bolivia, on the North-East side of the Eastern Cordilleras. It is chiefly remarkable on account of the patulate effused formation of the aperture and deep rose-purple stained columella.

Species 107. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TIGRIS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-elongatá, ampliter umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, laevibus aut subtiliter striatis, labro columellari sublatè expanso, externo simplici, subeffuso; albida, purpureo-fuscescente latè strigatá.

The tiger Bulimus. Shell cylindrically elongated, largely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, smooth or finely striated, columellar lip widely expanded, outer lip simple, somewhat effused; white, broadly streaked with purple-brown.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 107.
Hab. Truxillo, Peru (on bushes on the mountains); Cuming.

Though approximating very closely to the B. varians, there is a sufficient variation in the form of this species to render it distinct; the body-whorl is of greater length and the aperture more effused.

Species 108. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ONCA. Bul. testá elongato-oblongá, tenui, subpellucidá, anfractibus quinque, ultimo maximo, obliquis, longitudinatiter striatis, per marginem superiorem leviter crenulatis, labro vix reflexo; violaceo-fulvá, guttis castaneis hic illic aspersá, columellá et aperturae fauce rosaceis.

The jaguar Bulimus. Shell elongately oblong, thin, rather transparent, whorls five in number, the last very large, oblique, longitudinally striated, slightly crenulated along the upper margin, lip scarcely reflected, violaceous fulvous colour, sprinkled here and there with large chesnut dots; columella and interior of the aperture pink.

D'Orbigny, Voyage dans l'Amer. Mérid. p. 295. pl. 30. f. 1 and 2.
Hab. Tutulima, Bolivia.

It is entirely owing to the enterprising spirit of M. Alcide D'Orbigny that we are indebted for the knowledge of this beautiful species. "Desiring to find a more immediate communication," says that intelligent traveller, "between Cochabamba and Moxas, Bolivia, we made a proposition to the Government of that Republic to make the attempt. The President, General Santa Cruz, furnished us with the means to achieve this undertaking. We set out on foot with a party of Indians to carry provisions, and after passing forty days amid the precipices of uninhabited mountains on the north-east side of the Eastern Cordilleras, and enduring a thousand difficulties and privations we accomplished our journey. It was in this excursion not far from Tutulima that we observed the Bulimus onca at the bottom of almost inaccessible ravines in damp woody situations, where it is of rare occurrence and difficult to procure, from its habit of burying itself in the earth."

Species 109. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MODESTUS. Bul. testá pyramidalí, turritá, ampliter umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, angustis, rotundatis, fortiter et creberrimè concentricè elevato-striatis, labro simplici; fuscescente, apicem versus albida, striis concentricis albis.

The modest Bulimus. Shell pyramidal, turreted, largely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, narrow, rounded, strongly and very closely concentrically elevately striated; light brown, whitish towards the apex, striae whitish.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 106.
Hab. Huacho, Peru, (on small bushes on the mountains); Cuming.

The whorls of this species have rather a tubercular style of growth.