BULIMUS.—PLATE XIX.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 33.
Hab. Monte Video, Buenos Ayres (on small trees in swampy places); Cuming.

A very delicate transparent species in which the whorls are concentrically marked with fine opake-white striæ.

Species 115. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS COTURNIX. Bul. testá globoso-ovalá, tenui, inflatá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus quinque, ultimo maximo; labro simplici; fuscescente-albá, maculis grandibus numerosis ustulato-castaneis tinctá.

THE QUAIL BULIMUS. Shell globosely ovate, thin, inflated, scarcely umbilicated, whorls five in number, the last very large, lip simple; brownish-white, stained with numerous large blotches of burnt-chesnut.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 33.
Hab. Huasco, Chili (on dry stones); Cuming, D'Orbigny.

This is certainly not a variety of B. Broderipii as M. D'Orbigny intimates, it is, with little or no variation, of a more globose form and another style of painting.

Species 116. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DRAPARNAUDI. Bul. testá subpyramidali-ovatá, anfractibus septem convexis, labro simplici; albá, strigis latiusculis cæruleis, roseis, et opaco-albis, lineis nigris interdum subtiliter undatis interspersis, pulcher-rimè longitudinaliter pictá.

DRAPARNAUDS' BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally ovate, whorls seven in number, convex, lip simple; white, very beautifully painted longitudinally with rather broad streaks of blue, pink, and opake white, interspersed with black lines which are sometimes finely waved.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 113.
Hab. Chilon, Bolivia (on the trunks of Cacti); Bridges.

This is truly a gem, exhibiting the gayest display of colours of any of the cactivorous species.

Species 117. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS BRIDGESII. Bul. testá ovatá, umbilicatá, pellucidá, apice subobtusá, anfractibus quatuor, striis confertissimè et subtilissimè decussatis, aperturá parviusculá, labro latè reflexo, ferè integro; sericeo-flavescente, peritreme albo.

BRIDGES' BULIMUS. Shell ovate, umbilicated, pellucid, rather obtuse at the apex, whorls four in number, very closely and finely decussated with striae, aperture rather small, lip broadly reflected, almost entire; silken yellow, peritreme white.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1842, p. 186.
Hab. Frierina, Huasco, Chili (under stones); Bridges.

A delicate transparent shell, resembling B. rosaceus in form, but certainly distinct from that species. The whorls are not crenulated along the upper edge, nor is there the least tinge of rose-colouring; it has more the transparency of a silkworm cocoon.