BULIMUS.
PLATE XVII.

Species 98. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CULMINANS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, tenuiculá, anfractibus sex, subrotundatis, longitudinaliter creber-rimè et subrude striatis, per marginem superiorem subtiliter crenulatis, labro simplici; flavido-olivacá, apicem versus cinerascente.

THE LOFTY-DWELLING BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, rather thin, whorls six in number, somewhat rounded, longitudinally very closely and rather rudely striated, finely crenulated along the upper margin, lip simple; yellowish, faintly olive, pale ash-coloured towards the apex.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amer. Mérid. p. 289.
Hab. Lake of Titicaca, Bolivia (under stones and at the roots of shrubs upon the mountains); D'Orbigny.

M. D'Orbigny describes this species as inhabiting the most elevated regions of the Bolivian Andes. It is of simple structure and not distinguished by any marked peculiarity of colouring.

Species 99. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS NUCLEUS. Bul. testá globoso-ovatá, tenuiculá, ventricosá, vix umbilicatá, sub lente minutissimè granulatá, anfractibus quatuor, rotundatis, labro reflexo; luteo-olivaceá, peritreme vivide aurantio.

THE KERNEL BULIMUS. Shell globosely ovate, rather thin, ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, very minutely granulated under the lens, whorls four in number, rounded, lip reflected; yellowish olive, peritreme bright orange.

SOWERBY, Conch. Illus., f. 33.
Hab. Maldanao, vicinity of Monte Video.

I doubt very much if the shell which D'Orbigny refers to this species (Voy. dans l'Amer. Mérid. p. 305) is anything more than a variety of B. rosaceus. It will be seen by the accompanying figure how much this shell resembles that species, though readily distinguished by its light globose structure and bright orange peritreme.

Species 100. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SORDIDUS. Bul. testá ovalá, ventricosá, ampliter umbilicatá, spirá breviusculá, acutá, anfractibus sex, convexis, ultimo maximo, inflato, creberrimè gra-

nulatis, labro tenui latè effuso; sordidè albá, aurantio-castaneo plus minusve tinctá et fasciátá.

THE DULL BULIMUS. Shell ovate, ventricose, largely umbilicated, spire rather short, acute, whorls six in number, the last very large and inflated, very closely granulated, lip thin, widely effused; dull white, more or less stained or variegated with orange chesnut.

LESSON, Zool. Voy. Coquille, pl. 13. f. 3.
Bulimi Proteus and mutabilis, Broderip.
Bulimus Cora, D' Orbigny.
Hab. Mountains of Peru (under stones); Cuming.

The name given to this species by Mr. Broderip is a far more appropriate one on account of its Protean aspect and pretty varieties of painting, than that to which it is entitled. First collected by M. Lesson during the voyage of the Coquille, it is to Mr. Cuming we are mainly indebted for the beautiful varieties obtained in different parts of Peru, St. Jacinta, Pacosmayo, Truxillo, Santos, &c., out of which Mr. Broderip proposed a second species under the name B. mutabilis. M. D'Orbigny collected the B. sordidus on the arid ridges of the mountain of San-Cristobal near Lima, and I believe his B. Cora from the interior of Peru, of which Mr. Cuming possesses authentic specimens, to be only another state of the same species.

Species 101. (Fig. a, b, c. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PERUVIANUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovalá, tenui, imperforatá, spirá subacutá, anfractibus quinque longitudinaliter rudè et irregulariter rugoso-striatis, interdum transversim obscurè punctato-sulcatis, labro simplici, tenuissimo; griseá aut flavidá aut fuscescente, sèpè roseo et cærulescente variegatá.

THE PERUVIAN BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, thin, imperforated, spire rather sharp, whorls five in number, longitudinally rudely and irregularly rugosely striated, sometimes encircled with obscure punctured grooves, lip simple, very thin; greyish or pale yellow or light brown, frequently variegated with pink or blue.

BRUGUIERE, Dict. Ene. Méth. no. 37.
Bulimi Gravesii and corrugatus, King.
Hab. Chili (at the roots of shrubs); Cuming.

There is not much variation in the form of this species, but it differs considerably in colour. The animal, unlike