BULIMUS.—PLATE XX.

THE SLIGHTLY WRINKLED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically elongated, somewhat Pupa-shaped, umbilicated, apex subpapillary, whorls eight in number, slightly concentrically wrinkled, columella reflected over the umbilicus, aperture small, lip very slightly dilated; olive-brown, encircled round the middle with a single pale band.

SOWERBY, Conch. Illus. Bul. f. 85.
Hab. Gallapagos Islands; Cuming.

Of a peculiar red-tinged olive brown-colour and chrysalis-like form.

Species 124. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS TURRITUS. Bul. testá elongato-turritá, imperforatá, spirae suturis impressis, anfractibus decem ad undecem, laevibus, subdepresso-convexis, aperturá parvá, labro simplici; albidá, rufo-fuscescente trifasciatá.

THE TURRETED BULIMUS. Shell elongately turreted, imperforated, sutures of the spire impressed, whorls ten to eleven in number, smooth, depressly convex, aperture small, lip simple; whitish, encircled with four reddish-brown bands.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 106.
Hab. Truxillo, Peru (on the mountains); Cuming.

The uppermost of the bands is next the suture of each whorl, the lowest is only shown in the last whorl.

Species 125. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SCULPTURATUS. Bul. testá ovatá, tenuiculá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, subventricosis, conspicuè reticulatin rugatis, interstitiis transversim corrugato-striatis, columellá simplicè reflexá, labro tenui; intus extusque fictili.

THE SCULPTURED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather thin, scarcely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, somewhat ventricose, conspicuously reticulately wrinkled, the interstices being corrugately striated, columella simply reflected, lip thin; earthy brown within and without.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1846, p. 29.
Hab. Gallapagos Islands (on bushes); Darwin.

The sculpture of this species is precisely that already described in the B. rugiferus and Darwinii, from both of which it differs in form, and from the latter more especially by the absence of any callous tubercles in the aperture.

Species 126. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CALVUS. Bul. testá oblongá, subturritá, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem rotundatis, laevibus aut minutè concentricè striatis, aperturá parvá, labro vix dilatato; pallescente brunnea, ad apicem nigricante.

THE BALD BULIMUS. Shell oblong, somewhat turreted, umbilicated, whorls seven in number, rounded, smooth or minutely concentrically striated, aperture small, lip slightly dilated; pale brown, blackish at the apex.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 72.
Hab. James' Island, Gallapagos (on dried tufts of grass); Cuming.

A smooth pale brown shell having somewhat an Achatinella-like appearance.

Species 127. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUSTULOSUS. Bul. testá subfusiformi-ovatá, ampliter umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, subrugosis, striis rudibus granulatis, moniliformibus, longitudinatiter ex-sculptis, columellá supra umbilicum reflexá, labro simplici; intus extusque sordidè albá.

THE PUSTULOSE BULIMUS. Shell somewhat fusiformly ovate, largely umbilicated, whorls six in number, rather rough, longitudinally engraved with rude granulated necklace-like striae, columella reflected over the umbilicus, lip simple; dead white within and without.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.
Hab. Huasco, Chili (under stones on elevated ground); Cuming.

The necklace-like granulated striae with which this species is longitudinally sculptured are extremely characteristic.