of B. conspersus and erosus, but is, I believe, sufficiently distinct.

Species 142. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS APODEMETES. Bul. testá ovatá, tenui, inflatá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus quinque, subrugoso-striatis, ultimo valde maximo, apertura subamplá, labro tenui; albida.

THE EXILE BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, inflated, scarcely umbilicated, whorls five in number, rather roughly striated, last whorl very much the largest, aperture somewhat large, lip thin; whitish.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 279.
Hab. Bolivia, &c.; D'Orbigny.

I must refer the reader for a better illustration of this species to the above-mentioned magnificent work by M. D'Orbigny, the present uncoloured specimen giving no other idea of it than that of form. In reference to colour M. D'Orbigny says, "the tints are extremely variable according to the localities; at Parana the shell is pale-yellow or dotted, often marked with transverse lines of marbled white and clear brown, with indications of distant clear brown longitudinal lines; at Chiquitos, on the other hand, it is distinguished by longitudinal brown bands only, which are then more conspicuous."

Species 143. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS STRIATULUS. Bul. testá pyramidali-ovatá, tenui, diaphaná, conspicue umbilicatá, anfractibus rotundatis, pulcherrimè creberrimè concentricè elevato-striatis, columellá reflexá, labro simplici; pallide cornea, translucida, striis opaco-albis, fasciis plurimis albidis interruptis cingulatá.

THE FINELY STRIATED BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally ovate, thin, diaphanous, conspicuously umbilicated, whorls rounded, very beautifully closely concentrically elevately striated, columella reflected, lip simple; pale horny colour, transparent, the striae opake-white, encircled with numerous interrupted whitish bands.

SOWERBY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 73.
Bulimus D'Orbignii, Pfeiffer,
Hab. Lima (under stones on the hills); Cuming.

A beautiful species, distinguished by the delicate aspect of its fine opake-white striae upon a transparent horny ground.

Fig. a is a representation of the specimen upon which Mr. Sowerby founded the species, and Fig. b is the shell described by Dr. Pfeiffer under the name B. D'Orbignii.

Species 144. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS GUTTATUS. Bul. testá pyramidali-oblongá, sub-fusiformi, umbilicatá, apice papillari, anfractibus sex, longitudinaliter rugoso-striatis, ad suturas crenulatis; fulvo-fuscescente, gutis apaco-albis longitudinaliter notatá, apice rosaceo-fuscá.

THE MOTTLED BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally-oblong, somewhat fusiform, umbilicated, apex papillary, whorls six in number, longitudinally rugosely striated, crenulated at the sutures; pale fulvous-brown, longitudinally marked with opake-white speckles; apex pinkish-brown.

BRODERIP, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 31.
Hab. Cobija; Cuming.

This species like others of the plate is characterized by a sprinkling of opake-white spots, and it is distinguished by its papillary apex.