in a smaller state deprived of epidermis. The specimen here represented, is from the choice collection of Mr. Dennison, and Mr. Cuming possesses it almost equally fine, selected from the stores of Mr. Dyson obtained during a recent expedition to Venezuela.

The journey performed by Mr. Dyson in this fertile district of South America, in search of objects of natural history, was undertaken through the generosity of a limited number of zoological friends, who, with the hope of enriching their collections, were at the same time desirous of encouraging the zeal of a young naturalist distinguished by his love of adventure. Though not perhaps a very profitable excursion, he collected many interesting species, and has no doubt gratefully responded to the patronage of his friends.

Species 158. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS THOMPSONI. Bul. testá subelongato-oblongá, imperforatá, apice obtusá, anfractibus sex, longitudinale liter striatis, per suturas plano-crenulatis, columellá rectá vel paululum arcuatá, labro vix reflexo; livido-cinerea, epidermide cornea, nitidá, olivaceo-viridi indutá, apice rufescente, anfractuum margine superiori crenulato albicante, aperturae fauce caerulecente, juxta peritrema purpureo-nigricante, labris laminá nigricante-lividá callosá junctis.

THOMPSON'S BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately oblong, imperforated, obtuse at the apex, whorls six in number, longitudinally striated, flatly crenulated along the sutures, columella straight or a little curved, lip but slightly reflected; livid ash colour, covered with a shining horny olive-green epidermis, reddish towards the apex, upper crenulated edge of the whorls whitish, interior of the aperture bluish, purple-black towards the peritreme, lips joined by a callous blackish livid lamina.

PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 74.
Hab. Andes of Quito.

A very distinct species remarkable for the same shining horny green epidermis which characterizes the Helix Busbii. (Conch. Syst. vol. ii. pl. 164. fig. 11.)

Species 159. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS SHONGI. Bul. testá pyramidalí-oblongá, crassá, imperforatá, anfractibus sex, laevibus, per suturas sub-crenulatis, labro reflexo; fuscescente, epidermide cornea rufo-castaneá indutá, anfractuum margine superiori albicante, columellá et aperturae fauce intensè aurantio-rufis, peritreme albicante.

SHONG'S BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally oblong, thick, imperforated, whorls six in number, smooth, slightly crenulated along the sutures, lip reflected; light brown, covered with a horny reddish chesnut epidermis, upper edge of the whorls whitish, columella and interior of the aperture deep orange red, peritreme whitish.

LESSON, Voy. de la Coquille, Moll. p. 321. pl. 7. f. 4, 5.
Hab. New Zealand.

A shell of not uncommon occurrence, always distinguished by the deep orange red colouring of the aperture and rich chesnut epidermis, whilst there is no plait on the columella.

It was first discovered by M. Lesson, during the Voyage of the Coquille, at the Bay of Islands, New Zealand, and named after one of the native Chiefs of that district. Subsequently M. Lesson thought to have recognised his species in Chemnitz's figure, Conchyl. Cab. vol. ix. pl. 121. f. 1039-40, under the title Helix auris-Midae and in De Férussac's figure of the B. auris-bovinus, Hist. Moll. terr. et fluv. pl. 159. f. 1, 2, but it is perfectly distinct from these, which (vide Pl. XXX.) are also distinct from each other, and the honoured name of the New Zealand Chief remains to posterity.

Species 160. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FULMINANS. Bul. testá oblongá, apicem versus peculiariter acuminatá, anfractibus quinque, oblique convolutis, undique longitudinaliter et reticulatè corrugatis, columellá fortiter uniplicatá labro latè reflexo; fumeo-fuscá, subpellucida, strigis longitudinalibus acutè angulatis intensè castaneis conspicue ornatá.

THE LIGHTNING BULIMUS. Shell oblong, peculiarly acuminated towards the apex, whorls five in number, obliquely convoluted, longitudinally and reticulately wrinkled throughout, columella strongly one-plaited, lip widely reflected; smoky brown, somewhat transparent, conspicuously ornamented with sharply angled, dark chesnut longitudinal streaks.

NYST, Bull. de l'Acad. Royale de Bruxelles.
Bulimus bellulus, Jonas.
Bulimus Loeveni, Pfeiffer.
Hab. Colonia de Tovar, Venezuela; Dyson.

A somewhat rare species rather sharply acuminated towards the apex, of a peculiar semitransparent smoky brown colour, marked with sharply zigzag longitudinal chesnut streaks.