BULIMUS.

PLATE XXII.

Species 137. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONSPERSUS. Bul. testá ovatá, tenui, semi-pellucidá, subumbilicatá, anfractibus quinque, rotundatis, concentricè obsoletè rudè striatis, ad suturas crenulatis, labro simplici; flavicante-corneá, lineis guttulisque opaco-albis profusè conspersá, peritreme pallide rosaceo.

THE BESPRINKLED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, thin, semi-transparent, slightly umbilicated, whorls five in number, rounded, concentrically obsoletely rudely striated, crenulated at the sutures, lip simple; yellowish horny colour, profusely sprinkled with opake white lines and dots, peritreme tinged with pink.

Sowerby, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1833, p. 73.
Hab. Lima (buried in the earth under bushes on the hills); Cuming.

A beautifully delicate horny species, crowded with effective opake-white lines and dots, with a pale rose peritreme to the aperture.

Species 138. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS AQUILUS. Bul. testá ovatá, ventricosá, umbilicatá, anfractibus quinque, longitudinaliter creberrimè et subtiliter striatis, interstitiis reticulato-punctatis, labro simplici; pellucido-castaneo alboque longitudinaliter undatá et variegatá.

THE SWARTHY BULIMUS. Shell ovate, ventricose, umbilicated, whorls five in number, longitudinally very closely and finely striated, the interstices being reticulately punctured, lip simple; longitudinally waved and variegated with transparent chesnut and white.

Hab. Tacna, Peru.

A prettily marked species approaching somewhat in character to the B. versicolor, but differing materially in form.

Species 139. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS STRIATUS. Bul. testá subpyramidalis-ovatá, tenuiculá, subampliter umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, undiè concentricè elevato-striatis, columellá sublatè expansá, labro simplici; fuscescente-albá, lineis strigisve concentricis castaneis irregulariter notatá.

THE STRIATED BULIMUS. Shell somewhat pyramidally ovate, rather thin, somewhat largely umbilicated, whorls six in number, concentrically elevately striated throughout, columella rather widely expanded, lip simple; brownish white, irregularly marked with concentric chesnut-brown lines and streaks.

King, Zool. Journal.
Hab. Lima (upon the hills); Cuming.

Peculiarly barred here and there in the most irregular manner with dark chesnut brown.

Species 140. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS EROSUS. Bul. testá ovatá, subampliter umbilicatá, spirá breviusculá, acuminatá, anfractibus sex, ventricosis, longitudinatiter subrugoso-striatis; diaphano fuscescente, strigis maculisque opaco-albis aspersá, apice pallide rosaceo.

THE ERODED BULIMUS. Shell ovate, somewhat largely umbilicated, spire rather short, acuminated, whorls six in number, ventricose, longitudinally somewhat roughly striated; light diaphanous brown, sprinkled with opake white streaks and spots, apex pale pink.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 106.
Hab. Huantajaya, near Iquiqui, Peru (under stones on the hills, 2,500 feet above the level of the sea); Cuming.

The detail of character is not much unlike that of B. conspersus, but it is a shell of larger size and much more solid growth.

Species 141. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ALBICANS. Bul. testá ovatá, umbilicatá, anfractibus quinque, ventricosis, subrugoso-striatis, columellá subexpansa, opaco-albicante, hic illie diaphana, aperiturae faucé fulvescente.

THE WHITE BULIMUS. Shell ovate, umbilicated, whorls five in number, ventricose, somewhat roughly striated, columella rather expanded; opake-white, here and there diaphanous, interior of the aperture fulvous.

Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.
Hab. Copiapo, Chili (in the dry sand on elevated ground near the Port); Cuming.

This species partakes in great measure of the characters