Species 150. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS NUX. Bul. testá pyramidali-ovatá, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, concentricè rudè corrugato-striatis, aperturá subquadrato-ovatá, paululum effusá; olivaceo-fuscá, rufescente tinctá, apice nigricante, apertura fave cærulescente-albá, prope marginem fuscá.
The nut Bulimus. Shell pyramidally ovate, umbilicated, whorls seven in number, concentrically rudely striaed in a wrinkled manner, aperture somewhat squarely ovate, slightly effused; olive-brown, stained with rusty red, blackish at the apex, interior of the aperture bluish-white, brown near the edge.
Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 125.
Hab. Charles's Island, Gallapagos (on bushes); Cuming.
The aperture of this species is frequently compressed at the sides so as to give it a somewhat square aspect.

Species 151. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS DERELICTUS. Bul. testá acuminato-ovatá, ampliter umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, subrotundatis, subtilissimè granoso-striatis, columellá labroque expansis, apice papillari; corneo-albiddá, opaco-albo hic illic conspersá.
The forsaken Bulimus Shell acuminately ovate, largely umbilicated, whorls six in number, somewhat rounded, very finely granosely striated, lip and columella expanded, apex papillary; flesh-white, sprinkled here and there with opake-white.
Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 107.
Hab. Cobija; Cuming.
The name attached to this shell is intended to denote the solitary habitat in which it was found by Mr. Cuming, on flat rocks without soil or verdure, all being desolate for a league around. M. D'Orbigny notices having collected it of a pinky hue, at a greater elevation upon some lichens and cactuses.

Species 152. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS VEXILLUM. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, corneá, subpellucidá, anfractibus quinque, laevigatis, nitidis; tuteo-albicante, fasciis plurimis castaneis cingulatá.
The flag Bulimus. Shell oblong-ovate, horny, semi-transparent, whorls five in number, smooth, shining; yellowish-white, encircled by numerous chestnut bands.
Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832, p. 105.
Hab. King's and Saboga Islands, Bay of Panama (on the trunks of large trees); Cuming.
This comparatively well-known species has, I believe, been called B. alternatus by Dr. Beck, in consequence of Mr. Broderip's name having been formerly applied by Bruguière to the shell commonly known as Achatina vexillum. M. Deshayes does not, however, think there is any necessity for this change, and lest it might add to the confusion I have avoided it.

Species 153. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS PESSULATUS. Bul. testá ovatá, tenui, inflatá, anfractibus quinque, rotundatis, ventricosis, laevibus, labro simplici; pellucido-corneá, epidermide ferrugineo-albo opaco, castaneo longitudinaliter strigatá, strigis distantibus, conspicuis.
The cross-barred Bulimus. Shell ovate, thin, inflated, whorls five in number, rounded, ventricose, smooth, lip simple; transparent horny, covered by a rusty white opake epidermis, crossed with conspicuous distant longitudinal streaks.
Hab. Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia (on bushes and high grass); Bridges.
This has much the appearance of being an immature shell, but the specimens collected by Mr. Bridges are all alike, and are without doubt of adult growth.

Species 154. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS AFFINIS. Bul. testá elongato-ovatá, subfusiformi, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, convexis, longitudinatiter rugoso-striatis, labro simplici; pallide corneá, maculis strigisque undatis opaco-albis profuse notatá, apice roseá.
The allied Bulimus. Shell elongately ovate, somewhat fusiform, umbilicated, whorls seven in number, convex, longitudinally roughly striated, lip simple; pale horny, profusely marked with opake-white waved streaks and spots, pink at the apex.
Broderip, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1832., p. 105.
Hab. Mexillones, desert of Atacama, Peru (in small crevices of the dry earth at an elevation of 2,000 feet above the sea); Cuming.
A light transparent shell covered with delicate flakes of opake-white.