BULIMUS.
PLATE XXVI.

Species 165. (Mus. White.)

Bulimus Adamsoni. Bul. testá subfusiformi-ovatá, ventricosá, spirá acuminatá, pyramidalí, anfractibus sex ad septem, laevibus vel obliquè tenuistriatis; columellá subrectá, aperturá paululum effusá, labro vix reflexo; violaceo-cinereá, basin versus subolivaceá, fusco hic illic sparsim nebulatá, vittá conspicuá cærulecente-albá, olivaceo-nigricante subremote articulatá cingulatá; vittá alterá pallidá obscurá supra, columellá purpureo-nigricante, peritreme violaceo, intus cærulecente-albo.

Adamson's Bulimus. Shell somewhat fusiformly ovate, ventricose, spire acuminated, pyramidal, whorls six to seven in number, smooth or obliquely finely striated; columella nearly straight, aperture a little effused, lip scarcely reflected; violet ash colour, olive-tinted towards the base, sparingly clouded here and there with brown; encircled by a conspicuous blue-white fillet, rather remotely articulated with olive-black, there being another pale obscure fillet above, columella purple-black, peritreme violet, bluish white within.

Hab. Base of the Purremo, near the volcano of Tolyma, on the eastern slope of the Andes.

This magnificent species was purchased many years since, with the above locality, by John Adamson, Esq., of Newcastle-on-Tyne, and no other specimen has since been heard of. The collection of that gentleman having been recently dispersed, it has fallen into the possession of another eminent amateur conchologist, Henry Hopley White, Esq., through whose kindness and liberality I am enabled to publish it after a long period of obscurity.

It is of an elegant pyramidal fusiform growth, rather ventricose and a little effused towards the base, of a rich olivaceous violet colour, distinguished by a conspicuous white belt remotely articulated with purple-black, and the peritreme of the aperture is of a rich violet.

Bulimus Dennisoni. Bul. testá acuminato-ovatá, ventricosá, anfractibus quinque ad sex, supernè subconcavo-depressá, superficie striis rugosis undique subtilissimè decussatá, anfractu ultimo peramplo, inflato, columellá subrectá, aperturá oblongá, labro vix reflexo; supra cæruleo-albicante, nigricante-viridi variegatá et punctatá, infra luteo-olivaceá, punctis strigisque brevibus undatis nigricante-viridibus, luteo in uno latere illuminatis, pulcherrimè pictá, zonis albidis cingulatá, quarum inferiori subobscurá, peritreme fusco, intus cæruleo-albicante.

Dennison's Bulimus. Shell acuminately ovate, ventricose, whorls five to six in number, slightly concavely depressed round the upper part, the entire surface being very finely decussated with rough striae, reticulated, last whorl very large, inflated; columella nearly straight, aperture oblong, lip scarcely reflected; bluish white above, variegated and dotted with blackish green, beneath yellowish olive, very beautifully painted with dots and short-waved streaks of blackish green, illuminated along one side with yellow, and encircled by two whitish zones of which the lower is somewhat obscure, peritreme brown, interior bluish white.

Hab. ——?

Another fine species, from probably the same fertile region, of which, I believe, only two specimens are known; one, here figured, in the collection of J. Dennison, Esq.; the other, very much worn and discoloured, in the British Museum. It approximates closely to the preceding species in general appearance, but differs materially in its details. In the B. Adamsoni the whorls form a nearly straight pyramidal cone, in the B. Dennisoni they are more ventricose and less pyramidally disposed, whilst the last is proportionably larger, more oblong, and more inflated. The texture of the two shells is dissimilar; the former is smooth or obliquely striated and appears to have a thin horny stratum of semi-transparent epidermis, the latter is finely decussated with rough uneven striae in a manner which is rarely if ever observed beneath a horny epidermis. The difference of colouring is best described in the accompanying drawings; they are two elegantly painted shells and, as species quite unapproached by any hitherto described, constitute a most interesting and valuable addition to the genus.