BULIMUS.

PLATE XXVIII.

Species 160. (Fig. 160 b. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FULMINANS. The shell here represented is that in Mr. Cuming's collection, described by Dr. Pfeiffer under the name of B. Loveni, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1847, p. 229. It is without doubt identical with the B. fulminans described at Pl. XXIV., though lighter in structure and of less acuminated growth.

Species 169. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS MILLERI. Bul. testá ovato-oblongá, spirá sub-obtusá, anfractibus quinque, tumidiusculis, obliquè convolutis, aperturá subcontractá, labro reflexo; castaneo-fuscá, epidermide sericeá, transversim minute granuloso-crispatá, indutá, peritreme roseo.

Miller's Bulimus. Shell ovately oblong, spire rather obtuse, whorls five in number, rather swollen, obliquely convoluted, aperture somewhat contracted, lip reflected; chesnut-brown, covered with a silken epidermis, which is transversely minutely granulously crisped, peritreme rose-coloured.

Sowerby, Conch. Illus. f. 94.
Hab. Brazil.

This beautiful species is mainly distinguished by its exquisite silken epidermis, which exhibits two or three bands towards the base, not of colour, but of light and shade, as in a shot-silk.

Species 170. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS AURIS-MIDÆ. Bul. testá oblongo- vel elongato-ovatá, subcompressá, anfractibus sex, laevibus aut irregulariter rugoso-striatis, ultimo valde majore, columellá callosá plicaeformi, interdum duabus, munitá, aperturá amplá; fulvescente-albá, epidermide olivaceo-castaneá indutá, aperturáe fauce rufescente-croceá, peritreme lacteá.

The Midas' ear Bulimus. Shell oblong or elongately ovate, a little compressed, whorls six in number, smooth or irregularly roughly striated, last whorl very much the larger, columella furnished with a plait-like callosity, sometimes two, aperture large; fulvous white, covered with an olive chesnut epidermis, interior of the aperture reddish chesnut, peritreme cream colour.

Auris-Midæ terræ australis, Chemnitz, Conch. Cab. vol. ix. p. 42. pl. 121. f. 1039, 1040.
Bulimus fibratus, Gray.
Hab. New Caledonia.

We are informed by Chemnitz in the ninth volume of the Conchylien Cabinet, published in 1786, that this shell was known to Favanne as "a very rare Buccinum from New Holland bearing some resemblance to the false Midas' Ear," meaning the Auricula Midæ, which Bruguière referred to his genus Bulimus under the same specific title as that used by Chemnitz in reference to this. We also learn from the same source that it was known to English collectors upwards of half a century ago, as 'The Midas' Ear from New Caledonia.' Lamarck, however, and his followers appear to have confounded it with the B. auris-bovina, from which, as described at Pl. XXX., it is amply distinguished.

The chief variation in the growth of the present species consists in some specimens being of an elongated form as represented in Chemnitz, and of which a specimen exactly agreeing with that figure is before me, and in others being of a compressed oblong tumid growth, as in the shell represented in the accompanying plate. Both varieties are distinguished by a plait-like callosity on the columella and the rich orange-red painting of the interior, but are equally distinct from the B. Shongi or auris-bovina.

Species 171. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FUNCKII. Bul. testá elongato-oblongá, subcylindraceá, crassiusculá, anfractibus quinque ad sex, longitudinale irregulariter rudè striatis, laevibus, apicem versus subtilissimè corrugato-reticulatis, columellá sub-arcuatá, labro fortiter reflexo; rufo-castaneá, epidermide olivaceá crassá indutá, aperturá livido-fuscá, peritreme fumeo-aurantio.

Funck's Bulimus. Shell elongately oblong, somewhat cylindrical, rather thick, whorls five to six in number, longitudinally irregularly rudely striated, smooth, very finely corrugately reticulated towards the apex; columella slightly arched, lip strongly reflected; reddish chesnut, covered with a thick olive epidermis, interior of the aperture livid brown, peritreme smoky orange.

Nyss, Mém. Société Royale de Liège, vol. i.