Bulimus superbus, Jonas.
Bulimus Caripensis, Valenciennes.
Hab. Caripi, Venezuela (in the crevices of high mountains); Funck, Dyson.

First discovered by M. Funck, and subsequently by Mr. Dyson, who found the species in great abundance at Caripi, Venezuela, where the natives were observed to collect and roast the animals for food. It is a rather solid shell of a cylindrically oblong form, and of a peculiar smoky tint of colour.

At the time M. Nyst was engaged in describing this species, it happened that Mr. Cuming, whilst passing through Belgium, observed to him that he had some recollection of its being already described in the Zoological Journal, under the name B. labeo. Upon this M. Nyst, in a subsequent notice of the species, took some considerable pains to exhibit the difference between the B. labeo and Funckii, reproducing the description and figure of the former for comparison, side by side, with the latter. M. Nyst is no doubt to be complimented for his ability and zeal in the matter, but in so doing he unconsciously attaches an importance to a passing conversational remark, a mere lapsus-linguae, or rather -memoriae, which the speaker never intended. The species are too far removed from each other to admit of two opinions.

Species 172. (Mus. Cuming.)

Bulimus melanocheilus. Bul. testá elongato-oblongá, subumbilicatá, anfractibus sex, longitudinaliter rude striatis, per marginem superiorem crenatis, apicem versus subtilissimè corrugatis; columellá subcontortá, aperturá parviusculá, labro reflexo; castaneo-brunnea, medio et infra suturas indistinctè fasciatá, epidermide luteo-olivacea indutá, aperturæ fauce et peritremate livido-nigrantibus.

The black-lip Bulimus. Shell elongately oblong, slightly umbilicated, whorls six in number, longitudinally rudely striated, crenated along the upper margin, very finely corrugated; columella a little twisted, aperture rather small, lip reflected; chesnut brown, indistinctly banded round the middle and beneath the sutures, covered with a yellowish olive epidermis, interior and peritreme of the aperture livid-black.

Nyst, Bul. Acad. Royale de Bruxelles, vol. xii.—Extrait, p. 8. pl. 3. f. 3 a, b.
Hab. Paraguay.

Chiefly remarkable for the peculiar livid black-lead hue of the enamel, which lines the interior and peritreme of the aperture.

Species 173. (Mus. Cuming.)

Bulimus rhodocheilus. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, spirá breviusculá, anfractibus quinque, tumidiusculis, undique minutissimè granulatis; columellá subcontortá, aper-
turá supernè contractá, labro expanso; castaneá, strigis albis longitudinalibus, peculiariter undatis et reticulatis, notatá, epidermide corneá lutescente indutá, peritremate roseo.

The rose-lip Bulimus. Shell oblong ovate, spire rather short, whorls five in number, somewhat swollen, very minutely granulated throughout; columella slightly twisted, aperture contracted round the upper part, lip expanded; chesnut brown, marked with longitudinal white streaks which are peculiarly waved and reticulated, covered with a yellowish horny epidermis, peritreme rose-coloured.

Hab. Brazil.

The light waved marks which distinguish this species have a singular net-work-like appearance, and the peritreme of the aperture is a particularly deep crimson rose.