BULIMUS.—PLATE XXIX.

There are apparently two well-marked varieties of this species, one of a deep burnt red colour, dark chesnut-black round the lower part, with a rose lip as in the richly coloured specimen here figured from the collection of Mr. Dennison; the other of a purplish colour, merely brownish towards the lower part and having the lip tinged with scarlet, as in Mr. Cuming's specimen.

Several fine examples of B. Downesii were collected by Mr. Fraser at the above-mentioned island, during his adventure in the unfortunate Niger Expedition.

Species 178. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS AURIPIGMENTUM. Bul. testá pyramidali-elongatá, spirá acuminatá, anfractibus septem, laevibus, plano-convexis; columellá angustá, rectá, quasi revolutá, aperturá parviusculá, labro simplici, acuto; peculiariiter rufescente-spadiceá, anfractibus flammis brevibus irregularibus erectis, castaneis et albis, basi cingulatis, anfractu ultimo fasciá castaneá latá.

THE ORPIMENT BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally elongated, spire acuminated, whorls seven in number, smooth, flatly convex, columella narrow, straight, as if rolled back, aperture rather small, lip simple, sharp; of a peculiar reddish bay, the whorls being encircled round the base with irregular short erect chesnut and white flames, last whorl with a broad chesnut band.

Hab. —— ?

A very handsome characteristic new species totally distinct from any hitherto known, for which I am indebted to the liberality of J. Dennison, Esq., who possesses two examples agreeing with each other in the minutest detail.

Species 179. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FAVANNII. Bul. testá ovatá ventricosá, umbilicatá, spirá breviusculá, acuminatá, suturis impresssis; anfractibus septem, concentricè striatis, laevibus, columellá latá, aperturá subcontractá, labro vix reflexo; albá, maculis grandibus quadratis, rufescente-fuscis supernè et infernè nebulatá.

FAVANNE'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, ventricose, umbilicated, spire rather short, acuminated, sutures impressed; whorls seven in number, concentrically striated, smooth, columella broad, aperture a little contracted, lip scarcely reflected; white, clouded above and below with large square reddish brown spots.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 227.
    Helix Favannii, Férussac.
    Bulimus cinctus, Jay.
Hab. Eastern Islands.

Easily distinguished by its style of painting, the colour being arranged round the upper and lower parts of the whorls in large oblong-square blotches, generally flowing irregularly one into the other.