turá oblongo-quadratá, parviusculá, contractá, labro dente unico planulato instructo; olivaceo-virescente, aperturá cærulescente-albá, peritreme intènse purpureo-roseo.

THE FLAT-TOOTHED BULIMUS. Shell oblong egg-shaped, rather thin, spire short, acuminated, whorls five in number, swollen, longitudinally very closely striated in a wrinkled manner, and, under the lens, crossed with very minute transverse striae, aperture oblong-square, rather small, contracted, furnished with a single flattened tooth; light olive-green, aperture bluish white, peritreme deep purple-rose.

MICHELIN, Magasin de Zool. pl. 25.
Hab. Brazil.

The surface of this species, in fine condition, has a delicate silken aspect, occasioned by a multitude of extremely fine transverse striae, which are scarcely discernible without the aid of a lens. The epidermis is of a peculiar plum-green colour, and the lip of an intense purple-rose, distinguished by an oblong flattened tooth.

Species 191. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PUDICUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, spirá brevi, acuminatá, anfractibus quinque tumidiusculis, undique striato-corrugatis, columellá uniplicatá, labro expanso, latè reflexo; olivaceo-rufá, peritreme nunc albo, nunc vivide roseo.

THE CHASTE BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, spire short, acuminated, whorls five in number, rather swollen, striately wrinkled throughout, columella one-plaited, lip expanded, widely reflected; olive-red, peritreme sometimes white, sometimes deep rose.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert., vol. viii. p. 253.
Helix pudica, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. (Gmelin's edit.) p. 3645.
Partula pudica, De Ferussac.

Helix pudica, Moricand.
Auris virginea, Chemnitz.
Voluta auris-virginis, Dillwyn.
Bulimus virginius, Bruguière.
Strophocheilus Almeida, Spix.
An eadem var. Bulimus perplexus, Sowerby.
Hab. Brazil.

M. Deshayes has already observed that the shell figured by Chemnitz under the name of Auris virginea (Conch. Cab. vol. ix. pl. 121. f. 1042) has a different aspect from that commonly known to us as the B. pudicus, figured in the accompanying plate, and among the shells collected by Dr. Spix in Brazil. The Auris virginea has more the form of a Partula, but I find no shell to correspond with it, and take it to be merely another state of the species under consideration.

(Species 192. Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS UNIDENTATUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, spirá breviusculá, anfractibus quatuor ad quinque, tumidis, subrugosis, aperturá parciusculá, labro reflexo, dente unico obtuso instructo; albidá, roseo tinctá, columellá labroque purpureo-castaneis.

THE ONE-TOOTHED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, spire rather short, whorls four to five in number, swollen, rather rough, aperture somewhat small, lip reflected, furnished with a single blunt tooth; whitish, tinged with rose, lip and columella purple-chesnut.

Partula unidentata, Sowerby, Tankerville Catalogue, App. p. vii.
Hab. Brazil.

I am not aware that any example of this species is known in fine condition with its epidermis. It is of more solid growth than the B. planidens, and of a less oblong form, whilst the tooth is short and blunt, not oblong and flattened. The species differ essentially also in colour.