BULIMUS.—PLATE XXX.

towards the base, columella straight; purple-black, covered with an epidermis marked with zigzag streaks of fawn-white, aperture bluish-white, columella pinkish-purple, peritreme black.
PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1848.
Hab. Philippine Islands; Kierulf.

I doubt if 'The Pretender' would not have been a more appropriate name for this shell than 'The Emperor,' for it appears to be simply a variety of B. pythogaster. It would, however, be unfair to judge of its claim to rank as a species by a single specimen not in the best condition. Mr. Cuming informs me that it was collected at the Philippines by Dr. Kierulf of Copenhagen, and that there is another exactly similar to it in the collection of M. Janelle of Paris; and further, that he never collected any B. pythogaster with this peculiar zigzag style of marking.

Species 184. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ATOMATUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, Achatina-formi, tenui, anfractibus sex, leáibus, inflatis, per marginem leviter crenulatis; columellá rectá, reflexá, labro externo, tenui, simplici; flavescente-brunneá, castaneo-rufo minutě undato-lineatá et punctatá, intus carulescente-albá.

THE MINUTELY DOTTED BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, Achatina-shaped, thin, whorls six in number, smooth, inflated, slightly crenulated along the edge; columella straight, reflected, outer lip thin, simple; yellowish-brown, minutely lineated and dotted in a waved manner with chesnut-red, interior bluish-white.
GRAY, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1834, p. 64.
Hab. Near Fort Macquarie, New Holland.

A singularly marked species having somewhat the form of the large African Achatinæ.

Species 185. (Mus. Dennison.)

BULIMUS AURIS-BOVINA. Bul. testá elongato-oblongá, crassá, spirá subacuminatá, anfractibus sex, rugosostriatis; columellá incrassatá, callositatióbus duabus munitá, quarum inferiori peramplá, solidá; aperturá parvá, peculiariter contractá, labro valdě incrassato; rufescente-albá, aperturæ fauce vividě rufá, columellá labroque eburneis.

THE OX-EAR BULIMUS. Shell elongately oblong, thick, spire somewhat acuminated, whorls six in number, roughly striated, columella thickened, furnished with two callosities, of which the lower is very large and solid, aperture small, peculiarly contracted, lip very much thickened; reddish-white, interior of the aperture deep red, lip and columella ivory white.
BRUGUIERE, Enc. Méth. dict. no. 80.
Auricula bovina, Lamarck.
Helix auris-bovina, Férussac.
Hab. Eastern Islands.

The Bulimi Shongi and auris-Midæ have each been confounded in its turn with the present species, which is eminently distinguished from them; first, in being of a natural white, which obtains a reddish hue, owing to the interior being very deeply stained with that colour; secondly, in the aperture being small and much contracted; thirdly, in being of more solid growth, and fourthly, in the lip and columella being like white porcelain or polished ivory.

Species 186. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DOMBEYANUS. Bul. testá ovatá, umbilicatá, spirá breviusculá, mucronatá, anfractibus sex ad septem, subrotundatis, concentricè rugatis; columellá subcontortá, reflexá, labro latissimè expanso et reflexo; albá, columellá et aperturæ fauce intensè lacco-purpureis.

DOMBEY'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, umbilicated, spire rather short, pointed, whorls six to seven in number, somewhat rounded, concentrically wrinkled; columella a little twisted, reflected, lip very widely expanded and reflected; white, interior deeply coloured with purple-lake.
Helix Dombeyana, Férussac, Hist. Moll.
Hab. Mexico.

This beautiful and very rare species is chiefly remarkable on account of the trumpet-like expansion of the aperture, which is of a deep purple-bronze colour.