BULIMUS.

PLATE XXXI.

Species 187. (Fig. a, Mus. Hudson; Fig. b, Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CITRINUS. Bul. testá subelongato-ovatá, crassiusculá, aut dextrá aut sinistrá, anfractibus sex ad septem, subrotundatis, laevibus, nitidis; vivide citrino-flavá, interdum rufescente-fusco flammatá, prope suturas albá, vittá longitudinali castaneo-nigrá interdum pictá, labro et peritreme albís.

THE CITRON BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongately ovate, rather thick, either dextral or sinistral, whorls six to seven in number, somewhat rounded, smooth, shining; bright citron yellow, sometimes flamed with reddish brown, white near the sutures, sometimes painted with a chesnut-black longitudinal fillet, lip and peritreme white.

BRUGUIERE, Enc. Méth. dict. no. 27.
Helix perversa (pars?), Linnaeus.
Helices dextra, and sinistra, Muller.
Helix aurea, Férrussac.
Hab. Moluccas.

This species is so well known by its long-established name, B. citrinus, that I have hesitated to adopt the Linnaean title Helix perversa, believing it probable that the author of the Systema Naturae, included more than one reversed species under that appellation.

Species 188. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS ATRICALLOSUS. Bul. testá oblongo-ovatá, basin versus subinflatá, spirá acuminatá; anfractibus sex ad septem, subrotundatis, laevibus, nitidis, labro expanso, latè reflexo; albídá, viridescente-luteo tinctá, parte supra columellam laminá callosá intensè purpureo-nigrá indutá, anfractu ultimo vittá simili longitudinali pictá, aperturá albá.

THE BLACK-CALLOUS BULIMUS. Shell oblong-ovate, somewhat inflated towards the base, spire acuminated, whorls six or seven in number, somewhat rounded, smooth, shining, lip expanded, widely reflected; white, stained with greenish yellow, the part above the columella covered with a callous deep purple-black lamina, last whorl painted with a longitudinal fillet of the same colour, aperture white.

GOULD, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist.
Hab. Tavoy, Burmah.

I fear there is not much difference between this and the preceding species, beyond the callous purple-black lamina which lines the interior of the body-whorl, and is of somewhat doubtful importance.

Species 189. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LINDENI. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, crassiusculá, apice obtusè depressá, anfractibus quinque ad sex, decussatim rudè striatis et subtiliter indentatis, per marginem exiliter crenulatis; columellá uniplicatá, aperturá parviusculá, labro subincrassato, reflexo; lacteá, nigro sparsim strigatá, apicem versus purpurascente, epidermide olivaceo-viridi indutá, aperturæ fauce cærulecente-albá, labro pallidè crocato.

LINDEN'S BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, rather thick, apex obtusely depressed, whorls five to six in number, decussately rudely striated and finely indented, faintly crenulated along the margin; columella one-plaited, aperture rather small, lip somewhat thickened, reflected; cream colour, sparingly streaked with black, purplish towards the apex, and covered with an olive-green epidermis, interior of the aperture bluish white, lip pale saffron colour.

Bulimus leptocheilus, Pfeiffer.
Hab. La Baja, Province of Pamplona, New Granada; Funck, Linden.

Notwithstanding the importance which is very properly attached to the priority of names, there are exceptions, as in the instance before us, in which a name may require to be changed. The term leptocheilus, or thin-lipped, denotes a character which is not found in the adult species; the shells of all Bulimi are "thin-lipped" in an immature state, and many remain so at maturity; but in the species under consideration, the lip is thickened and rather widely reflected. I therefore venture to name it anew, in honour of the indefatigable botanist and shell-collector, to whom we are indebted for so many beautiful species of Bulimi from the luxuriant district of New Granada.

Species 190. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS PLANIDENS. Bul. testá oblongo-oviformi, tenuiculá, spirá brevi, acuminatá, anfractibus quinque, tumidis, longitudinaliter cereberrimè corrugato-striatis, striis minutissimis transversis sub lente decussatis, aper-