Mr. Benson informs me that this species was first collected by Capt. Hutton in the warmer vallies of the sub-Himalayan range, on the left bank of the Sutledge; and that specimens were transmitted to him from Khyber Pass by Capt. Barr.

Species 304. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LIVESCENS. Bul. testá acuminato-ovatá, subturritá, tenui, anfractibus septem, subrotundatis, laevibus, columellá simplici, labro tenui, acuto; livescente-albá, interdum zonulis fuscis angustis tribus cingulatá.

THE BLUISH BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate, rather turreted, thin, whorls seven in number, somewhat rounded, smooth, columella simple, lip thin, sharp; bluish-white, encircled with three narrow light-brown zones.

PFEIFFER, Monog. Bul. p. 175.
Hab. Tehuaca, Mexico.

It should be observed that in the banded variety the two lower bands, which are frequently broader than the uppermost, are only seen in the last whorl.

Species 305. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS FUSCAGULA. Bul. testá cylindraceo-elongatá, basi compressá, subumbilicatá, Pupiformi, anfractibus novem, obtusè striatis et peculiariter indentatis, columellá bilamellatis, aperturá parvá, contractá, expansá; subcornea, opaco-lutescente-albo strigatá et subtiliter reticulatá, labro roseo.

THE FUSCOUS-THROAT BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically elongated, compressed at the base, slightly umbilicated, Pupa shaped; whorls nine in number, obtusely striated and peculiarly indented, columella with two tooth-like laminae, aperture small, contracted, expanded; somewhat horny, streaked and finely reticulated with opake yellowish white, lip rose.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. p. 310. pl. 39. f. 1, 2.
Hab. Rio Janeiro.

Very closely allied to B. Janeirensis, and from the same locality; it seems, however, to differ in the columellar laminae and reticulated arrangement of the opake pattern.

Species 306. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS HELENA. Bul. testá subobeso-cylindraceá, tenui, umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, rotundatis, striis minutis creberrimè decussatis, suturis impressis, columellá labroque vix reflexis; squalidè olivaceá, semipellucidá.

THE HELENA BULIMUS. Shell somewhat stoutly cylindrical, thin, umbilicated, whorls six in number, rounded, very closely decussated with minute striæ, sutures impressed, lip and columella scarcely reflected; dirty olive, semitransparent.

QUOY and GAIMARD, Voy. dans l'Astrol. vol. 2. p. iii. pl. 9. f. 82.
Hab. St. Helena.

The minute decussated striæ of this species are scarcely discernible without the aid of a lens.

Species 307. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS CONSTRICTUS. Bul. testá pyramidali-conicá, umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, rotundatis, striis transversis et longitudinalibus minutissimè decussatis, suturis peculiariter impressis; albidá, semipellucidá, epidermide tenui olivaceá indutá.

THE TIED BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally conical, umbilicated, whorls seven in number, rounded, very minutely decussated with longitudinal and transverse striæ, sutures peculiarly impressed; whitish, semi-transparent, covered with a thin olive epidermis.

PFEIFFER, Symbolae, vol. 1. p. 43.
Bulimus Angosturensis, Gruner.
Hab. Angostura; Gruner.

Mainly characterized by the impressed growth of the sutures.

Species 308. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS DIGITALE. Bul. testá obeso-ovatá, umbilicatá, spiræ suturis peculiariter profundè impressis, anfractibus quinque ad sex, subtiliter granuloso-reticulatis, columellá reflexá, labro simplici; olivaceo-fuscá.

THE THIMBLE BULIMUS. Shell stoutly ovate, umbilicated, sutures of the spire peculiarly deeply impressed, whorls five to six in number, finely granulously reticulated, columella reflected, lip simple; olive-brown.

Hab. ——?

The surface of this shell is reticulated in a delicate wrinkled manner, covered by a silken olive epidermis, and the sutures are universally deeply impressed.