BULIMUS.
PLATE LXXVIII.

Species 568. (Mus. Cuming.)

BULIMUS LATIREFLEXUS. Bul. testá acuminato-cylindraceá, subobesá, semipellucidá, compressè umbilicatá, anfractibus octo, obliquè creberrimè plicato-striatis, infra suturas lineá marginatis, columellá latá, verticali, aperturá suborbiculari, labro latè reflexo; fulvescente-corneá, labro opaco-albidá.

THE BROADLY-REFLECTED BULIMUS. Shell acuminately cylindrical, rather stout, semitransparent, compressly umbilicated, whorls eight in number, obliquely very closely plicately striated, edged with a line beneath the sutures, columella broad, vertical, aperture nearly orbicular, lip broadly reflected; fulvous horny, lip opake fulvous-white.

Hab. Muscat?

Mr. Cuming has every reason to believe that this fine species is from Muscat, Arabia.

Species 569. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS CERATINUS. Bul. testá acuminato-oblongá, tenui, compressè umbilicatá, anfractibus sex ad septem, convexis, subobscure irregulariter sulcato-striatis, columellá latè verticaliter reflexá, aperturá parviusculá, suborbiculari, pellucido-corneá.

THE INTRICATE BULIMUS. Shell acuminately oblong, thin, compressly umbilicated, whorls six to seven in number, convex, somewhat obscurely irregularly striated in a grooved manner, columella broadly vertically reflected, aperture rather small, nearly orbicular; transparent horny.

BENSON, MSS.
Hab. Almorah, Kemaon, Western Himalaya; Capt. Boys.

Distinguished from B. montanus, to which it is next allied, by its delicate transparent texture and absence of granules.

Species 570. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS RUFISTRIGATUS. Bul. testá cylindraceo-oblongá, compressè umbilicatá, anfractibus octo, plano-convexis, laevibus, ad suturas minute crenulatis, aperturá parviusculá, suborbiculari; fulvo-corneá, opaco-albo irregulariter tenuistrigatá.

THE RED-STREAKED BULIMUS. Shell cylindrically oblong, compressly umbilicated, whorls eight in number, flatly convex, smooth, minutely crenulated at the sutures, aperture rather small, nearly orbicular; fulvous horny, irregularly finely streaked with opake-white.

BENSON, MSS.
Hab. At the base of the lower range of the Himalaya, between the rivers Jumna and Sutlej; Hutton.

Communicated to Mr. Benson by Capt. Hutton with the title Pupa strigata, of which the specific name is occupied in the present genus.

Species 571. (Mus. Benson.)

BULIMUS BENSONI. Bul. testá acuminato-ovatá, haud umbilicatá, anfractibus octo, transversim minute et creberrimè striatis, striis subtilissimè granulatis, peculiariter corrugato-undulatis, columellá tenuiculá, leviter contortá, labro vis reflexo; violascente-albá, purpurascente-fusco variegatá, fasciis albis duabus tribusve, maculis intensè purpureis sagittalibus notatis, cingulatá, columellá castaneo-fuscá.

BENSON'S BULIMUS. Shell acuminately ovate, not umbilicated, whorls eight in number, transversely minutely and very closely striated, striae very finely granulated, peculiarly corrugately waved, columella rather thin, slightly twisted, lip scarcely reflected; violet-tinged white, variegated with purple-brown, encircled with two or three white bands marked with deep purple arrow-head spots, columella chesnut brown.

Hab. Banks of the river Amazon.

This fine species, which I have the honour to name after a gentleman who has afforded me much valuable information on the Bulimi of Bengal, Afghanistan and North Western India, is closely allied in general aspect to the B. zebra. Its chief point of difference consists in the minute waved-striated semigranular sculpture which characterises the entire surface of the shell, whilst the design of painting is marked by the presence of two white bands, painted with dark purple arrow-head spots, pointing towards the lip.