BULIMUS.
PLATE LXXXIV.

Species 593. (Mus. Adams.)
BULIMUS OCTONOIDES. Bul. testá subelongatá, spire suturis impressis, anfractibus septem, supernè rotundatis et concentricè impresso-striatis, columellá tenuè reflexá, aperturá parvá, labro simplici; pallidè stramineá, diaphaná.

THE OCTONOID BULIMUS. Shell somewhat elongated, sutures of the spire impressed, whorls seven in number, rounded at the upper part and concentrically impressly striated, columella thinly reflected, aperture small, lip simple; light straw-colour, diaphanous.

ADAMS, Pro. Nat. Hist. Soc. Boston, 1845, p. 12.
Hab. Jamaica.

Named to denote its general resemblance with the B. octonus, which is referred to Achatina.

I am indebted for eight of the species of this plate to the kindness of Mr. C. B. Adams, Professor of Zoology, &c., in Amherst College, Massachusetts. They were collected during an excursion in Jamaica, in company with the Honourable Mr. Chitty, Chairman of Quarter Sessions in that Island, together with a number of interesting land shells of other genera, which Mr. Adams is preparing for publication in a periodical pamphlet form, under the title of 'Contributions to Conchology.'

Species 620. (Mus. Adams.)
BULIMUS TEREBELLA. Bul. testá subulatá, anfractibus octo, convexiusculis, concentricè impresso-striatis, columellá tenuè reflexá, aperturá parvá, labro simplici; sordidè fuscescente.

THE LITTLE AUGUR BULIMUS. Shell subulate, whorls eight in number, rather convex, concentrically impressly striated, columella thinly reflected, aperture small, lip simple; dull brownish.

ADAMS, MS.
Hab. Jamaica.

This is the most elongated form of the Jamaica type, of light diaphanous growth, concentrically impressly striated. It is very minute, and, with the rest of the species of this plate, considerably magnified.

Species 621. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS GOODALLII. Bul. testá conico-elongatá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus septem, convexiusculis, laevibus, columellá subcontortá, tenuè reflexá, aperturá parvá, labro simplici; pellucido-corneá.

GOODALL'S BULIMUS. Shell conically elongated, scarcely umbilicated, whorls seven in number, slightly convex, smooth, columella somewhat twisted, thinly reflected, aperture small, lip simple; transparent horny.

Helix Goodallii, Miller, Ann. Phil. 1822, p. 381.
Bulimus Goodallii, Gray.
Helix (Cochlicella) clavulus, Férussac.
Bulimus clavulinus, Potiez and Michaud.
Bulimus pumilus, Pfeiffer.
Hab. West Indies.

This little species, being transported from Jamaica, has become partially naturalized in this country, and is included by some authors in the British fauna. It is found abundantly in the pine-pits at Bristol, especially on the sides of the pots, where they are immersed in the decayed bark.

Species 622. (Mus. Adams.)
BULIMUS MIRABILIS. Bul. testá pyramidali-conicá, anfractibus octo, rotundatis, supernè squamis grandibus erectis undique peculiariter coronatis, columellá contortá, aperturá parvá, medio contractá; carneo-fuscescente.

THE WONDERFUL BULIMUS. Shell pyramidally conical, whorls eight in number, rounded, peculiarly coronated throughout with large erect scales, columella twisted, aperture small, contracted in the middle; light flesh-brown.

ADAMS, MS.
Hab. Jamaica.

The whorls in this remarkable species are contracted in the middle, and the upper portion is prominently coronated throughout with broad vaulted scales.

The three following Bulimi of Adams are numbered to belong to Achatina, under which genus the descriptions are given at Pl. XXII.