BULIMUS.
PLATE LXXXIX.

Sp. 367. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS INTERSTINCTUS. Having been favoured with finer specimens of this very interesting species, collected by Dr. Perkins at Cape Palmas, West Africa, I avail myself of the opportunity of figuring two characteristic varieties.

Species 661. (Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS KELLETTII. Bul. testá ovatá, subventricosá, anfractibus quinque, convexis, rugoso-striatis, ad suturas subplicato-crenulatis, anfractu ultimo multò maximo, columellá incrassatá, peculiariter contortá, apertura subeffusá, labro incrassato, reflexo; cærulescente-griseá saturatè quadrifasciata, strigis angustis albis interruptis et undatis longitudinaliter fulguratá, columellá et aperturae fauce iridescente-purpureis.

KELLETT'S BULIMUS. Shell ovate, rather ventricose, whorls five in number, convex, roughly striated, somewhat plicately crenulated at the sutures, last whorl much the largest, columella thickened, peculiarly twisted, aperture rather effused, lip thickened, reflected; bluish-grey, encircled with four bands of a darker colour, and longitudinally lightning-marked with narrow waved and interrupted white streaks.

Hab. Ecuador?

I have much pleasure in naming this new and very beautiful species after the zealous naturalist, Capt. Kellett, of H. M. S. Herald, by whom it was procured in Central America, and is probably from Ecuador.

Species 212. (Mus. Miers.)
BULIMUS OVATUS. An interesting white-lip dwarf variety, from Bahia, described by M. Sowerby in his 'Conchological Illustrations' under the name B. auritus.

Species 662. (Fig. a and b. Mus. Cuming.)
BULIMUS TORRIDUS. Bul. testá oblongo-tumidá, apice subpapillarii, anfractibus septem, convexis, obliquè elevato-striatis, ad suturas subtiliter et creberrimè crenulatis, columellá simplici, apertura ovatá, labro parùm reflexo; ustulato-fuscá, epidermide olivaceá indutá, aperturae fauce intensè fuscá.

THE TORRID BULIMUS. Shell oblong-tumid, somewhat papillary at the apex, whorls seven in number, convex, obliquely elevately striated, finely and very closely crenulated at the sutures, columella simple, aperture ovate, lip but little reflected; scorched-brown, covered with an olive epidermis, interior of the aperture dark brown.

Gould, MSS.
Hab. Liberia, West Africa.

The African species received from Dr. Gould, of Boston, United States, just at the close of this monograph, will probably be described, if not so already, in the Proceedings of the Natural History Society of that city. They are of an extremely interesting character, and were collected by Dr. George A. Perkins, a zealous American missionary, for many years resident at Cape Palmas.