ACHATINA.

PLATE I.

Genus Achatina, Lamarck.

Testa ovata vel fusiformi-oblonga, anfractibus plerumque striatis vel granatis, columellá involutá, basi peculiariter truncatá, aperturae labro simplici, nunquam incrassato aut reflexo. Operculum nullum.
Shell ovate or fusiformly oblong, whorls mostly striated or grained, columella rolled inwards, peculiarly truncated at the base, lip of the aperture simple, never thickened or reflected. No operculum.

The general aspect of the Achatinae is very similar to that of Bulimus, but the particulars of the shell in detail present a sufficient typical difference throughout. The chief peculiarity of structure which characterises this genus resides in the columella, it being always involuted towards the aperture, and more or less abruptly truncated at the base. A negative character is also afforded in the outer lip being never thickened or reflected. The Achatinae are not of the same arboreal habits as the Bulimi, but dwell in places where there is more moisture, in swamps or in the vicinity of lakes and rivers; and are more confined to particular localities. They comprehend three very distinct groups, one consisting of large, richly coloured, ventricose species, chiefly inhabiting West Africa, where they may be said to take the place of the Bulimi, another comprising numerous delicate species, some of a semi-transparent, glassy polish, others finely sculptured with granulated or raised striae, inhabiting Central America, the West Indies, and Southern Europe, and constituting the genus Glandina of authors. The prettily painted and porcelain-like species A. virginea and vexillum, are also representatives of another type, the genus Lignus of De Montford.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PFEIFFERI. Achat. testá oblongo-turritá, anfractibus octo, convexis, longitudinaliter obscurè plicato-striatis, apicem versus subtiliter decussatá, ad suturas indistinctè crenulatis, columellá valdè arcuatá et contortá, abruptè truncatá; fulvescente-albá, rufo-fusco, praecipue basin versus, flammatá.
PFEIFFER'S ACHATINA. Shell oblong-turreted, whorls eight in number, convex, longitudinally obscurely plicately striated, finely decussated towards the apex, indistinctly crenulated at the sutures, columella much arched and twisted, abruptly truncated; pale fulvous white, flamed especially towards the base with reddish-brown.
Dunker, Zeitschr. fur Malac. 1845. p. 163.
Hab. Near Loanda, West Africa (on sandy mountains).
As in most species of the genus the colouring is darker and more thickly displayed towards the base.

Species 2. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA AEQUATORIA. Achat. testá acuminato-oblongá, anfractibus septem, tumidis, rotundatis, laevibus, obliquè tenuistriatis, ad suturas lirá parvá spirali crenulatá cinctis, columellá vix truncatá, labro simplici; cinereo-caerulecente, apicem versus albicante, strigis maculisque fuscis irregulariter aspersá.
THE EQUATORIAL ACHATINA. Shell acuminately oblong, whorls seven in number, swollen, rounded, smooth, obliquely finely striated, encircled with a small spiral crenulated ridge at the sutures, columella scarcely truncated, lip simple; ash-blue, whitish towards the apex, sprinkled irregularly with brown streaks and spots.
Hab. Banks of the river Gaboon, West Africa.
The marking of this species, from a locality nearly on the equator, is very peculiar, not disposed in regular stripes, but wavy and scattered; the whorls are more than usually rounded, and the apex has a papillary aspect.

Species 3. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA VARIEGATA. Achat. testá conico-oblongá, basin versus ventricosá, anfractibus septem ad octo, plus minus subtiliter decussatis, ad suturas crenulatis, lineá impressá marginatis, columellá contortá, obliquè truncatá, labro simplici; fulvo-albidá, strigis nigro-castaneis undatis, hic illic fulguratis, sàpissimè pictá, columellá vividè roseá.
THE VARIEGATED ACHATINA. Shell conically oblong, ventricose towards the base, whorls seven to eight in number, more or less finely decussated, crenulated at the sutures, margined with an impressed line, columella twisted, obliquely truncated, lip simple; fulvous-white, most frequently painted with dark waved chestnut streaks here and there zig-zag, columella very deep rose.