ACHATINA.

PLATE IV.

Species 13. (Mus. Cuming.)

ACHATINA PRUNUM. Achat. testá ovatá, tenui, ventricosculá, spirá apicem versus obtusá, anfractibus quinque, infra suturas appressis, laeviusculis, apicem versus minutissimè decussatis, columellá arcuatá, vix truncatá; aureo-lutescente, castaneo latistrigatá, supernè purpureo-roséd.

THE PLUM ACHATINA. Shell ovate, thin, rather ventricose, obtuse towards the apex, whorls five in number, appressed beneath the sutures, somewhat smooth, very minutely decussated towards the apex, columella arched, but slightly truncated; pale golden-yellow, broadly streaked with chesnut, purple-rose towards the upper part.
Hab. West Africa.

A striking species, distinguished by its obtuse growth and peculiar colouring. The last whorl is of a delicate golden-yellow, marked with dark chesnut streaks converging together at the base, whilst the upper whorls are of a purple-rose, indistinctly spotted at the sutures.

This species may possibly have been taken for the young of A. marginata, but it is certainly distinct.

Species 14. (Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA MARGINATA. Achat. testá conico-ovatá, ventricosá, anfractibus sex ad septem, laevibus, apicem versus minutissimè decussatis, infra suturas peculiariter marginatis, columellá subprofundè arcuatá et contortá, lutescente, nigricante-castaneo profusè undulatá et stri-gatá, apice intensè roseo, columellá nunc albá, nunc roseá, aperturae fauce cærulescente-albá.

THE MARGINED ACHATINA. Shell conically ovate, ventricose, whorls six to seven in number, smooth, very minutely decussated towards the apex, peculiarly margined beneath the sutures, columella rather deeply arched and twisted; yellowish, profusely waved and streaked with blackish chesnut, apex deep rose, columella sometimes white, sometimes rose, interior of the aperture bluish-white.
SWAINSON, Zool. Illus. pl. 30.
Achatina amphora, Jay.
Hab. West Africa.

Mostly very richly marked externally, but not coloured in the aperture as in the species which follows.

Species 15. (Fig. a, Mus. Cuming; Fig. b, Mus. Dennison.)

ACHATINA PURPUREA. Achat. testá ovatá, solidiusculá, anfractibus sex, convexis, infra suturas marginatis et eximiè crenulatis, longitudinatiter striatis, apicem versus decussatis, columellá subprofundè arcuatá et contortá; cærulescente-olivaceá, pallide fusco rarò strigatá, apice rosaceo, columellá et aperturae fauce intensè roseis, interdum nigro-purpureo marginatis.

THE PURPLE ACHATINA. Shell ovate, rather solid, whorls six in number, convex, margined and delicately crenulated beneath the sutures, longitudinally stria-ted, decussated towards the apex, columella somewhat deeply arched and twisted; bluish-olive, faintly streaked at distant intervals with pale brown, pink at the apex, columella and interior of the aperture deep rose, sometimes edged with black-purple.
LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. viii. p. 296.
Bulla purpurea, Chemnitz.
Butimus purpurascens, Bruguiére.
Hab. Cape Palmas, West Africa.

This species may generally be recognised by the deep rose colouring of the aperture and columella, which, as in the beautiful specimen figured from Mr. Dennison's collection, is sometimes edged with very dark purple, approaching to black.