ACHATINA.
PLATE IX.

Species 28. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA ALABASTER. Achat. testá conico-ovatá, crassiusculá, anfractibus septem, sub lente minutissime spiraliter striatis, suturis subimpressis, columellá vix truncatá, aperturá parvá; pellucido-albá, fasciá aurantio-castaneá medio cingulatá.
THE ALABASTER ACHATINA. Shell conically ovate, whorls seven in number, very minutely spirally striated beneath the lens, sutures slightly impressed, columella scarcely truncated, aperture small; transparent white, encircled round the middle with an orange-chestnut band.
DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. viii. p. 312.
Helix alabaster, Rang.
Hab. Prince's Islands, West Africa.
The bright chestnut band which encircles this species, is constant in all the examples I have seen.

Fig. 29. (Mus. Cuming.)
For this species see Plate X. Sp. 35, A. fasciata, of which the shell here figured (A. crenata, Swainson) is a variety.

Species 30. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA REEVEANA. Achat. testá conico-ovatá, tenuiculá, anfractibus septem, sub lente minutissime spiraliter striatis, obliquè subtiliter plicato-striatis, ad suturas concentricè crenulatis, columellá vix truncatá, aperturá parviusculá; pellucido-albá, fasciá obscurá luteo-fuscá medio cingulatá.
REEVE'S ACHATINA. Shell conically ovate, rather thin, whorls seven in number, very minutely spirally striated beneath the lens, obliquely finely plicately striated, concentrically crenulated at the sutures, columella scarcely truncated, aperture rather small; transparent white, encircled round the middle with an obscure yellowish-brown band.
PFEIFFER, Monog. Helic. viv. vol. ii. p. 247.
Hab. Banks of the river Gaboon, West Africa.
Distinguished from A. alabaster, to which it is next allied, by its larger and lighter structure, sutural crenulations, and faint colouring of the band.

Species 31. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Dennison.)
ACHATINA FUSIFORMIS. Achat. testá fusiformi-oblongá, tenui, ventricosá, anfractibus septem, supernè obscurè subangulato-productis, longitudinaliter creberrimè sub-irregulariter plicato-striatis, striis minutis impressis spiraliter indentatis, ad suturas crispato-marginatis, columellá abruptè truncatá, aperturá angustá; stramineá vel fuscescente, eximie miniatá, strigis angustis hic illic saturatè pictá, intus pallidè rosaceá.
THE FUSIFORM ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly oblong, thin, ventricose, whorls seven in number, obscurely slightly angulated round the upper part, longitudinally very closely but rather irregularly plicately striated, spirally indented with minute impressed striae, crisply margined at the sutures, columella abruptly truncated, aperture narrow; pale straw-colour, or brownish, delicately tinged with vermilion, and painted here and there with narrow streaks of darker colour, pale rose within.
PFEIFFER, Pro. Zool. Soc., 1845, p. 75.
Hab. Mountain of Coban, Vera Cruz, Central America.
It is scarcely possible to do justice to the delicate colouring and plicated sculpture of this beautiful species, the inner edge of the lip of which is stained with a peculiar saturnine vermilion, whilst the entire shell is more or less tinged with a warm hue of the same, excepting in the variety represented at Fig. 31. b, which is of a bright silky straw-colour.

Species 32. (Mus. Dennison.)
ACHATINA DENNISONI. Achat. testá fusiformi-ovatá, spirá subacuminatá, anfractibus sex, subrudè exiliter plicato-striatis, striis subtilibus impressis decussatis, apice subpapillari, columellá arcuatá et contortá, attenuatè truncatá; fuscescente, fusco apicem versus variegatá, anfractu ultimo immaculato, fasciá pallidá obscurá cingulato, columellá pallidè rosaceá, supra livido-cærulescente, fusco marginaliá.
DENNISON'S ACHATINA. Shell fusiformly ovate, spire rather acuminated, whorls six in number, somewhat rudely faintly plicately striated, decussated with fine impressed striae, apex somewhat papillary, columella arched and twisted, attenuately truncated; pale brown, variegated towards the apex with darker