ACHATINA.
PLATE XXIII.

Species 125. (Mus. Taylor.)
ACHATINA MARMOREA. Achat. testá elongato-turritá, an-
gustá, subcylindraceá, solidiusculá, anfractibus plano-
convexis, obliquè subrudè striatis, columellá tenuè truncatá, aperturá parvá; albá, epidermide cornea castaneá indutá.

THE MARBLE ACHATINA. Shell elongately turreted, narrow, somewhat cylindrical, rather solid, whorls flatly convex, obliquely rather rudely striated, columella thinly truncated, aperture small; white, covered with a chestnut horny epidermis.

Hab. ——?

This species resembles the Bulimus calcar in form. It is of more solid growth, and has the columella distinctly truncated.

Species 126. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA MUCIDA. Achat. testá ovatá, tenui, subven-
tricosá, anfractibus sex, decussatim subtilissimè granulo-
so-striatis, supernè marginatis, et obscurè crenulatis, columellá tenuissimè truncatá; opaco-albo et pur-
pureo-fusco strigatá et variegatá, epidermide tenui indutá.

THE MOULDY ACHATINA. Shell ovate, thin, rather ven-
tricose, whorls six in number, decussately very finely granulously striated, marginated round the upper part, and obscurely crenulated, columella very thinly truncated; streaked and variegated with opake-white and purple-brown, covered with a thin epidermis.

Bulimus mucidus, Gould.
Hab. Liberia, West Africa.

A light, strongly painted shell, of which the colouring is seen through in the interior.

Species 127. (Fig. Guérin.)
ACHATINA SAULCYDI. Achat. testá oblongo-ovatá, ven-
tricosá, sinistrá, apice subpapillari, anfractibus convexis, irregulariter rugoso-striatis, ad suturas crenula-
tis, columellá subexcavatá et truncatá; violaceo-griseá, nigricante-fusco longitudinaliter lineatá et strigatá, aperturae fauce ferrugineo-fulva.

Saulcyd's ACHATINA. Shell oblong-ovate, ventricose, sinistral, somewhat papillary at the apex, whorls convex, irregularly roughly striated, crenulated at the sutures, columella slightly excavated and truncated; violet-grey, longitudinally streaked and lineated with blackish brown, aperture rusty-fulvous.

De Joannis, Guérin's Mag. de Zool. 1834, Moll. pl. 50.
Hab. Prince's Island, West Africa.

I have not seen this species, but have ventured to copy the excellent figure of it in the work above referred to, on account of its characteristic appearance. The papillary type of the apex appears also in Bulimus torridus, from the neighbouring locality of Liberia.

Species 128. (Mus. Cuming.)
ACHATINA GOULDII. Achat. testá ovato-conicá, tenui, ventricosá, apice subpapillari, anfractibus plano-con-
vexis, obliquè tenuissimè striatis, ad suturas subtiliter crenulatis, anfractu ultimo basi leviter angulato; ful-
vescente-olivaceá, epidermide tenui indutá, epidermide secundá hydrophaná prope apicem radiatá et infra angulum anfractús ultimi unifasciáta.

GOULD'S ACHATINA. Shell ovately conical, thin, ventri-
cose, somewhat papillary at the apex, whorls flatly convex, obliquely very finely striated, finely crenu-
lated at the sutures, last whorl slightly angled at the base; fulvous-olive, covered with a thin epidermis, rayed at the apex with a second hydrophanous epidermis, and encircled with a single band of the same beneath the angle of the last whorl.

Bulimus balteatus, Gould.
Hab. Liberia, West Africa.

The name balteatus being already occupied in this genus, I have the pleasure of naming the species after the accomplished naturalist to whom I am indebted for it,—Dr. Gould, of Boston, United States.