DOLIUM.

PLATE I.

Genus DOLIUM, Lamarck.

Testa tenuis, globoso-tumida, ventricosissima, transversim costata, nunquam longitudinaliter exsculpta, apertura amplá, labro simplici, crenato, rarò fimbriato, labro columellari latè expanso. Operculum nullum.

Shell thin, globosely swollen, extremely ventricose, transversely ribbed, never longitudinally sculptured, aperture large, lip simple, crenated, rarely fimbriated, columellar lip broadly expanded. No operculum.

The Dolia or 'Tuns' are mainly distinguished from other genera of the great family of Purpurifera to which they belong, by their large globosely inflated growth, transverse ribs, and absence of any sort of longitudinal sculpture, presenting a singular contrast in this respect with their allies, the 'Harps,' in which ribs only occur in a longitudinal direction.

As may be gathered from the very light structure and ample volution of the shell, its animal inhabitant is distinguished for its large size and muscular strength, as well as by its voracity and comparative activity of habit. The head is furnished with a long retractile proboscis which the animal is capable of rapidly protruding or withdrawing, furnished at the extremity with a kind of rosette, as represented in the beautiful figure of D. perdix in the Voyage de l'Astrolabe by MM. Quoy and Gaimard. The disk or foot of Dolium is large and fleshy and, according to M. Deshayes, becomes inflated with water, when the animal desires to swim, imbibing the fluid through certain pores in the skin. The colours of the animal present a brilliant contrast with those depicted in the shell; the D. perdix is striped with light azure blue, the D. pomum is also light blue, and the D. olearium is of a rich coppery green.

The Dolia are partially distributed, although the D. perdix occurs equally on the shores of the Philippine Islands and in the West Indies. The D. pomum is found also both in the Philippine and Society Islands. This and the D. ringens from Peru are of more solid growth than the rest, and peculiar in having a hollow excavated in the columella, on which account they have been separated from the genus by M. Valenciennes under the title of Malea. The D. galea of the Mediterranean is remarkable for its large size, but the D. variegatum has been recently collected at Torres Straits, North Australia, of even more gigantic proportions.

The shells of this genus, though not much esteemed by collectors, are by no means common; only fourteen species are known, and of these, but one new one has resulted from the researches of Mr. Cuming or Sir E. Belcher.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM GALEA. Dol. testá maximá, ventricosissimá, umbilicatá, spirá brevi, paululum subsidente, suturis profundè impressis, anfractibus septem, supernè tumidis, transversim costatis, costis convexis, confertis, superioribus lirá sèpissimè interveniente, columellá subcontortá; albidá aut pallidè fulvá, apice nigricante, labro columellari albá, labro intus fusco tincto.

THE HELMET TUN. Shell very large, extremely ventricose, umbilicated, spire short, a little sunk in, sutures deeply impressed, whorls seven in number, swollen round the upper part, transversely ribbed, ribs convex, close-set, upper ones with most frequently an intervening ridge, columella somewhat twisted; whitish or pale fulvous colour, apex blackish, columellar lip white, lip stained within with brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 139.
Buccinum galea, Linnaeus.
An eadem var.?
Dolium ampullaceum, Philippi.
Testa juvenis.
Dolium tenue, Menke.
Hab. Mediterranean.

The above recorded synonyms of this well-known species have arisen out of the circumstance of its having a more oblong form in an early stage of growth, and an occasional irregularity in the development of the ribs.