DOLIUM.
PLATE VI.

Species 9. (Mus. Brit.)
DOLIUM PERDIX. Dol. testá ovato-oblongá, tenuí, inflatá, basin versus obliquè effusá, umbilicatá, spirá subexsertá, anfractibus sex, transversim sulcatis et costatis, costis ad viginti, contiguís, plano-convexís, vix elevatis, columellá arcuatá, labro simplici; fulvo-brunneá aut rufescente-spadiceá, maculis lunatis albis plus minusve frequentibus, notatá, aperturae fauce cærulescente-albá, aut brunnescente.

THE PARTRIDGE TUN. Shell ovately oblong, thin, inflated, obliquely effused towards the base, umbilicated, spire somewhat exserted, whorls six in number, transversely grooved and ribbed, ribs about twenty in number, contiguous, flatly convex, scarcely raised, columella arched, lip simple; fulvous brown or light reddish bay, marked, more or less plentifully, with white lunate spots, interior of the aperture bluish-white or brownish.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 144.
Buccinum perdix, Linnaeus.
Eadem var. Dolium plumatum, Green.
Hab. Eastern, Western, and Pacific Oceans.

It is not often that in genera so limited in kind as the present, a species occurs with so wide a range of habitation as the Dolium perdix. Inhabiting both hemispheres, it differs in the ribs being more or less elevated, but in no feature, sufficiently, to allow of its being made the subject of another species, as introduced by Dr. Jacob Green in the Transactions of the Albany Institute.

The D. perdix, it may be observed, is modelled on a different type from the rest of the genus, the spire being more elevated and the aperture more obliquely effused.

Species 10. (Mus. Rolfe.)
DOLIUM CHINENSE. Dol. testá ovato-globosá, tenuissimá, ventricosá, basi subtruncatá, vix umbilicatá, anfractibus sex, transversim multicostatis, costis tenuibus depressiusculis, lirá parvá interveniente, columellá contortá, labro simplici; albido fulvoque alternatim zonatá, zonis albidis rufo-fusco maculatis, aperturae fauce pallidè aurantio tinctá.

THE CHINA TUN. Shell ovately globose, very thin, ventricose, somewhat truncated at the base, scarcely umbilicated, whorls six in number, transversely many-ribbed, ribs rather depressed, with a small ridge running between them, columella twisted, lip simple; painted alternately with fulvous and white zones, white zones spotted with red-brown, interior of the aperture faintly tinged with orange.

DESHAYES, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 146.
Buccinum Australe seu Chinense, Chemnitz.
Dolium variegatum, Philippi (not of Lamarck).
Hab. China Seas.

If Dr. Philippi had proclaimed the D. Chinense and variegatum to be one and the same species in different states, instead of assigning the shell under consideration to the Lamarckian species, and distinguishing that from Torres Straits by a new name, his opinion would have been less open to objection; for the characters of the New Holland specimens are so truly represented in this, under certain modifications, that they might almost be regarded as local varieties. They agree even in colour and pattern, and the only difference between them consists in the D. Chinense being of much smaller and lighter structure, of more contracted growth, and more numerously and finely ribbed.