DOLIUM.

PLATE VII.

Species 11. (Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM FASCIATUM. Dol. testá ovato-ventricosá, vix umbilicatá, spirá canaliculatá, anfractibus sex ad septem, transversim costatis, costis sedecim ad septemdecim, plano-convexis, laevibus, interstitiá supremá latiusculá, columellá subcontortá, labro reflexo, fimbriato-dentato; albá, fasciis quatuor latiusculis aurantio-fuscis, pone labrum evanidis, cingulatá, apice cæruleo-nigricante.

THE BANDED TUN. Shell ovately ventricose, scarcely umbilicated, channelled at the spire, whorls six to seven in number, transversely ribbed, ribs sixteen to seventeen, flatly convex, smooth, uppermost interstice rather wide, columella a little twisted, lip reflected, fimbriately toothed; white, encircled with four rather broad orange-brown bands, fading behind the lip, apex blue-black.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. vol. x. p. 142.
Buccinum fasciatum, Bruguière.
Hab. Philippine Islands; Cuming.

The orange-brown bands which encircle this shell constitute a marked character of the species, whilst the manner in which they gradually fade away before reaching the lip, neatly illustrates a peculiarity which may be observed throughout the species, of a certain deficiency of pattern towards the completion of the shell. Before arriving at maturity, the animal appears to lose its powers of design in the display of ornamental colouring, and it not unfrequently happens, that after any sudden accident or concussion, sufficient to cause a sea-break, the shell is completed in a coarse rugged manner, with little indication of the design and variety of colouring which has characterized its previous growth.

It is hardly necessary to draw a comparison between this species and the D. costatum, confounded with it by M. Kiener, for the ribs in that species are very prominent, and widely separated, whilst in the D. fasciatum they are very depressed and almost contiguous; the bands, moreover, wanting in D. costatum, are not to be lightly regarded.

Species 12. (Fig. a, Mus. Hanley; Fig. b, Mus. Cuming.)

DOLIUM ZONATUM. Dol. testá globoso-ovatá, tenuiculá, vix umbilicatá, spirae suturis canaliculatis, anfractibus sex, transversim costatis, costis depresso-convexis, quatuordecim ad sedecim, subdistantibus, lirá tenui, supernè duabus tribusve, interveniente; columellá tortuosá, labro simplici aut subtiliter crenulato; castaneo-rufescente, concolori, anfractuum parte supremá albida, apice nigricante.

THE ZONED TUN. Shell globosely ovate, rather thin, scarcely umbilicated, sutures of the spire channelled, whorls six in number, transversely ribbed, ribs depressly convex, fourteen to sixteen in number, rather distant, with a fine ridge, two or three towards the upper part, running between them; columella twisted, lip simple or finely crenulated; chesnut-red, of one uniform colour, uppermost portion of the whorls whitish, apex blackish.

GREEN, Transactions of the Albany Institute, vol. i. part 1. p. 131.
Dolium crenulatum, Philippi.
Hab. China.

This is the only species of the genus in which there is an isolated raised line between the interstices of the lower ribs of the shell; the D. galea has an elevated line between the upper ribs in an early stage of growth, but in this portion of the shell of D. zonatum, there are three. It is accurately described and figured by Dr. Jacob Green of the United States in the volume above referred to, and a magnificent specimen has been recently described and figured by Dr. Philippi in the third volume of his 'Abbildungen' as a new species with the name above recorded.