CASSIS.

PLATE XI.

Species 29. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS PYRUM. Cass. testá ovato-globosá, plerumque crassissimá, anfractibus convexis, lèvigatis, supernè plus minusve angulatis, interdum subnodosis; columellá crassá, lèvigatá, basi obscurè sulcatá, labro reflexo, incrassato; aurantio-lacteá, nigricante-fusco pone varices maculatá.

THE PEAR HELMET. Shell ovately globose, generally very thick, whorls convex, smooth, more or less angulated round the upper part, sometimes slightly nodose; columella thickened, smooth, obscurely grooved at the base, lip reflected, thickened; orange cream-colour, spotted with blackish-brown behind the varices.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p.33.
Eadem. Cassis Zeylanica, Lamarck.
Hab. New Holland.

I cannot observe any character of sufficient permanence to distinguish Lamarck's Zeylanica from C. pyrum. The species is sometimes comparatively thin and lightly noduled, but more frequently very much thickened, with the enamel sometimes deposited in rude callous layers.

Species 30. (Mus. Cuming.)

CASSIS SULCOSA. Cass. testá ovalá, spirá subproductá, acutá, anfractibus evaricosis, supernè concavo-depressis, sulcis regularibus equidistantibus undique cingulatis; columellá plicato-rugatá et granosá, labro sèpissimè valdè incrassato, intus acutè fortiter lirato; griseo-fulvá, ferrugineo-fusco maculatá et flammatá.

THE GROOVED HELMET. Shell ovate, spire somewhat produced, sharp, whorls destitute of varices, concavely depressed round the upper part, encircled throughout with regular, equidistant grooves; columella plicately wrinkled and granose, lip frequently very much thickened, sharply and strongly ridged within; greyish fulvous colour, blotched and flamed with rusty brown.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p.34.
Buccinum sulcosum, Born.
Cassidea sulcosa, Bruguière.
Buccinum undulatum, Gmelin.
Hab. Mediterranean.

The common species of the Mediterranean, perfectly distinct from the C. inflata and others with which M. Kiener seems to confound it. Owing to its ventricose growth and the regularity with which it is spirally grooved throughout, it has somewhat the aspect of a Dolium.