TURRITELLA.

PLATE I.

Genus TURRITELLA. Lamarck.

Testa elongato-turrita, lanceolato-acuminata, nunquam umbilicata, anfractibus numerosis, sèpissimè transversim costatis vel striatis, nunquam longitudinatìer exsculptis, evaricosis, nunquam spinosis aut muricatis; aperturá parviusculá, plus minusve rotundatá, marginibus disjunctis, labro sèpè medio sinuato.

Shell elongately turreted, lanceolately acuminated, never umbilicated, whorls numerous, mostly transversely ribbed or striated, never longitudinally sculptured, destitute of varices, never spined or prickly; aperture rather small, more or less rounded, margins disjoined, lip often sinuated in the middle.

The genus Turritella affords excellent characters for the distinction of species. Constructed upon the simple type of an enlarging tube, the shell is developed with geometrical symmetry in short convolutions, varying from fifteen to thirty in number, the same number in each species, forming a sharply acuminated screw. The whorls are sometimes flattened or a little concave, and being always contiguous there is no indication of any umbilicus. No varices or tubercles are formed, as in Cerithium, nor is there any periodical developement of sculpture on the margin of the aperture. The ribs and striae of Turritella range transversely, that is, spirally, never longitudinally, and are rarely granulated or noduled. The best characters for the discrimination of species reside in the first eight or ten whorls from the apex; beyond this point the sculpture varies slightly or becomes obsolete, as the shell approaches maturity. In colour the reverse of this condition is presented, the pattern becoming gradually darker and more defined towards the aperture.

The genus Turritella has been somewhat neglected by conchologists. Only eleven species were described by Lamarck, and a monograph lately published in Paris by M. Kiener includes less than half the number now before me from the cabinets of Mr. Cuming, Mr. Metcalfe, Mr. Hanley, Sir. Edward Belcher, the British Museum, and the Banksian Collection in the museum of the Linnaean Society; amounting to sixty-five all distinctly characterized in respect of form, sculpture, and painting.

The Linnaean species have not been correctly interpreted by Lamarck, Deshayes, or Kiener, for want of access to the original types of the 'Systema Naturae' preserved in the museum of the Linnaean Society of London. The Turbo acutangulus of Linnaeus proves to be a simple variety of the T. duplicatus, and not the shell assigned to it by M. Deshayes. The shell described as Turbo variegatus in the 'Systema Naturae,' though differing materially in general aspect from that which served for the description of the Turbo imbricatus, may, nevertheless, be traced to belong to the same species; and the Turbo unguinus of Linnaeus proves to be identical with Lamarck's Turritella fuscata. The British species Turbo terebra, Linn. in 'Fauna Suecica' (not of Syst. Nat.) and Montagu, must be referred to the T. cornea of Lamarck,

The Turritella brevialis of Lamarck (LeMesal of Adanson) constitutes the type of a new genus, founded by Mr. Gray, under the name Mesalia, to which I venture to add the Turritella lactea of Möller, and a very characteristic species from the Cumingian collection. A genus has been also introduced by Mr. Gray, with equal judgment, under the name Eglisia, founded on the Turritella spirata of the Tankerville Catalogue; and to this is added a species collected by Mr. Cuming at one of the Philippine Islands.

The Turritellae have a wide range of habitation and dwell at a considerable depth as well as near the surface. The T. cornea has been recently dredged off the Shetland Islands by Mr. M'Andrew at a depth of many fathoms, beyond the influence of light and colourless. Only two comparatively small species besides this, extend so far from north of the equator as the Mediterranean. The greater number are from the Eastern Seas and the shores of Central America, and there are a few known from New Zealand, Australia, and Van Dieman's Land.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

Turritella unguinea. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, anfractibus quindecim, convexis, laevibus, regulariter decem-striatis, interstitiis superficialiter sulcatis, aperturá suboblongo-ovali; castaneo-rufá, aperturam versus ustulato-nigrá.

The nail-bruised Turritella. Shell acuminately turreted, whorls fifteen in number, convex, smooth, regularly ten striated, interstices superficially grooved, aperture rather oblong-oval; chestnut-red, burnt black towards the aperture.

Turbo unguinus, Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. (12th. edit.) p. 1240.
Turritella fuscata, Lamarck.
Hab. Senegal, Mouth of the Gambia, West Africa.

The original specimen which served Linnaeus for the type of his Turbo unguinus, still preserved in the museum of the Linnaean Society of London, proves, as Mr. Hanley first pointed out to me, to be Lamarck's T. fuscata. The locality "Seas of Europe" erroneously given in the 'Systema Naturae' led Dr. Pulteney, and recently M. Deshayes, to assign the Linnaean species to the only Turritella existing north of the Mediterranean; on the