TURRITELLA.

PLATE II.

Species 5. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA LEUCOSTOMA. Turr. testá subpyramidalis-acuminatá, angustá, acutissimè lanceolatá, solidiusculá, anfractibus ad viginti, supernè contractis, suturis excavatis, infernè extrorsum projectis, planulatis, spiraliter sex-liratis, liris angustis, subdistantibus, interstitiis subtilissimè striatis; fulvescente-albá, liris nitidè aurantio-rufo articulatis.

THE WHITE-MOUTH TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat pyramidally acuminated, narrow, very sharply lanceolate, rather solid, whorls about twenty in number, contracted round the upper part, sutures excavated, projected outwardly round the lower part, flattened, spirally six-ridged, ridges narrow, rather distant, interstices very finely striated; fulvous white, ridges neatly articulated with orange-brown.

VALENCIENNES, Zool. Voy. Humboldt et Bonpland, vol. ii. p. 275.
Hab. Gulf of Nicoiyo (in sandy mud at the depth of eleven fathoms); Cuming.

Distinguished by the truly regular style in which the shell is turreted. The whorls contracted round the upper part and projecting outwards gradually towards the base, look like an attenuated pyramid of thimbles; and they are spirally encircled throughout by a row of neatly articulated ridges.

Species 6. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA BRODERIPIANA. Turr. testá elongato-turritá, subcylindraceo-tumidá, anfractibus octodecim, undique creberrimè impresso-striatis, perpaucis primis unicari-natis, medianis planulatis, cæteris medio depresso-concavis, suturis interdum indistinctis; fulvescente, cæru-leo-fuscescente nebulatá, lineis rubido-fuscis transversis brevibus interruptis, in strigis undulatis frequenter dispositis, densè lentiginosá.

BRODERIP'S TURRITELLA. Shell elongately turreted, somewhat cylindrically swollen, whorls eighteen in number, very closely impressly striated throughout, the first few whorls one-keeled, the next flattened, then depressly concave in the middle, sutures sometimes indistinct; light fulvous colour, clouded with blue-brown and thickly freckled with short interrupted red-brown transverse lines, mostly disposed in waved streaks.

D'ORBIGNY, Voy. dans l'Amér. Mérid. Moll. p. 388.
Turritella marmorata, Kiener.
Hab. Payta, Peru (in fine sand at a depth of about eight fathoms); Cuming.

The T. Broderipiana has a very characteristic style of painting, consisting of a profusion of short irregular linear dashes, ranged transversely, but mostly disposed in confused longitudinally waved streaks; and over these, there is generally a scorched blue-brown stain of colouring. The shell is of an uncouth subcylindrical growth, spirally encircled throughout with fine grooved striae.

Species 7. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA BACILLUM. Turr. testá elongato-acuminatá, anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, convexis, supernè sub-planulatis, spiraliter quinque- vel sex-carinatis, carinis angustis, subirregulariter distantibus, aperturam versus ferè evanidis; livido-fulvescente, carinis saturationibus.

THE STAFF TURRITELLA. Shell elongately acuminated, whorls eighteen to twenty in number, convex, rather flattened round the upper part, spirally five- to six-keeled, keels narrow, somewhat irregularly distant, almost disappearing towards the aperture; livid fulvous colour, the keels being of darker hue.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv., p. 5. pl. 4. f. 1.
Hab. Ceylon.

The spiral keels of this species are not developed in the sharp prominent style of the T. terebra. Towards the aperture they nearly disappear, leaving their colour on the surface as though they had sunk, so to speak, into the substance of the shell.