TURRITELLA.

PLATE III.

Species 8. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA TIGRINA. Turr. testá pyramidali-turritá, subangustá, solidiusculá, anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, spiraliter quinque- vel sex-liratis, costá tumidá declivi ad basin angulatis; albida, flammis obliquis purpureo-nigris profuse pictá.

THE TIGER-STRIPED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally turreted, somewhat narrow, rather solid, whorls eighteen to twenty in number, spirally five- or six-ridged, angled at the base with a slanting swollen rib; whitish, profusely painted with oblique purple-black flames.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv., p. 29. pl. 4. f. 2.
Hab. Gulf of California.

The peculiarities of this species, which approaches the T. lentiginosa and goniostoma, consist in its more solid structure and narrow pyramidal growth, whilst the whorls are swollen to an obtuse angle round the base. The colouring is disposed in more definite stripes, especially towards the apex. In the species just mentioned the first few whorls are conspicuously keeled round the middle, but in the T. tigrina there is little variation from the general pattern.

Species 9. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA LENTIGINOSA. Turr. testá subobeso-turritá, anfractibus ad viginti, primis perpaucis carinatis, medianis planulatis, cæteris medio convexis, basi tumidis, omnibus cereberrimè spiraliter striatis et sulcatis, aperturam versus laminis irregularibus imbricatis; albida, lineis subtilibus fuscis, brevibus, interruptis, spiraliter lentiginosá, maculis strigisve nigricantibus subindistinctis obliquè nebulatá, apice interdum violaceo.

THE FRECKLED TURRITELLA. Shell rather stoutly turreted, whorls about twenty in number, the first few carinated, the middle whorls rather flattened, the rest convex in the middle and swollen round the base, the whole very finely spirally grooved and striated, and imbricated with irregular laminae towards the aperture; whitish, spirally freckled with short interrupted fine brown lines, and obliquely clouded with rather indistinct blackish streaks and blotches, apex sometimes tinged with violet.

Hab. Payta, Peru (in coarse sand at a depth of about five fathoms); Cuming.

A shell of rather stout growth, generally more or less imbricated with rude irregular laminae near the outer lip. The first seven or eight whorls are distinctly keeled round the middle, the next seven or eight are flattened in a manner almost to obliterate the suture, and the remainder are sunk in the middle and swollen above and below, showing the sutures more distinctly.

The painting of this species consists of a profusion of extremely fine, short, brown, transverse lines or dashes, over which is an obscure confused marbling of oblique blackish blotches; in some specimens this is wanting and its place is supplied by a dull greyish tinting. The apex is frequently of a delicate violet colour. Care should be taken not to confound the T. lentiginosa with the following species which is characterized by a different style of painting and a slight difference of form.

Species 10. (Fig. a and b, Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA GONIOSTOMA. Turr. testá subcylindraceo-acuminatá, anfractibus octodecim ad viginti, spiraliter tenuistriatis, primis perpaucis carinatis, medianis planulatis, cæteris medio concavis, costá interdum prominulá et crenatá, supra et infra angulatis, anfractu ultimo sèpè prope aperturam laminis subimbri-catis; albá, griseo- vel rufescente-nigro densè mar-moratá.

THE ANGULAR-MOUTH TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat cylindrically acuminated, whorls eighteen to twenty in number, spirally finely striated, the first very few whorls keeled, the middle whorls smooth, the rest concave in the middle, angled above and below with a rib, which is sometimes prominent and crenated, last whorl often slightly imbricated near the aperture with laminae; white, thickly marbled with grey or reddish-black.

VALENCIENNES, Zool. Voy. Humboldt et Bonpland, vol. ii. p. 275.
Hab. Payta, Peru; Salango, West Columbia; Guacomayo, Central America (in sandy mud at depths of from five to ten fathoms); Cuming.

The variation of sculpture in the several stages of the growth of this species is very similar to that of the pre-