TURRITELLA.—PLATE VI.

The characters by which this species differs from T. bacillum are apparently of trivial importance, but they are constant in several specimens that have come under my observation. The whorls are more swollen round the lower part, and the keels are finer, more numerous, and not distinguished by any darker colouring.

Species 26. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA CROCEA. Turr. testá pyramidali-turritá, solidiusculá, anfractibus viginti aut pluribus, convexo-planulatis, spiraliter quinque- ad decem-carinatis, carinis subtilibus, inaequidistantibus; croceo-brunnea, anfractuum parte superiori saturatiore, suturis pallidioribus.

THE SAFFRON-TINGED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally turreted, rather solid, whorls twenty or more in number, convexly flattened, spirally five to ten-keeled, keels fine, inequidistant; saffron-brown, upper part of the whorls darker, sutures paler.

KIENER, Icon. coq. viv. p. 24. pl. 11. f. 2.
Hab. China.

The flattened surface of the whorls and light colouring of the sutures constitute the characteristic features of this species. The spiral keels are unusually numerous, but the alternate ones are sometimes only faintly developed, leaving five only of a prominent character.

Species 27. (Mus. Belcher.)

TURRITELLA SANGUINEA. Turr. testá subelongato-turritá, anfractibus octodecin ad viginti, convexis, spiraliter impresso-sulcatis, sulcis irregularibus, liris intermediis planiusculis; fulvo-albicante, liris maculis sanguineis transversis, oblongo-quadratis, profuse pictis.

THE BLOOD-STAINED TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat elongately turreted, whorls eighteen to twenty in number, convex, spirally impressly grooved, grooves irregular, intermediate ridges rather flattened; fulvous white, ridges profusely painted with transverse oblong-square blood-stained spots.

Hab. California.

A very characteristic species in which the entire surface is closely painted with transverse oblong-square dull blood-stained spots.

Species 28. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA GEMMATA. Turr. testá pyramidali-turritá, crassiusculá, ad basin angulatá, anfractibus ad quindecim, supernè bicostatis, medio concavis, infernè unicostatis, costis superioribus granatis, inferiori laevi; albá, rufescente-fusco hic illic pallide tinctá.

THE GEMMED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally turreted, rather thick, angled at the base, whorls about fifteen in number, encircled with two granulated ribs round the upper part, and one smooth one round the lower, concave in the middle; white, faintly stained here and there with light orange brown.

Hab. ——?

The structure of this species approaches somewhat in pattern to that of the T. radula, though it will be found to differ on comparison in the lower spiral rib being smooth except on the last whorl. The species differ materially in form, the T. gemmata being shorter and composed of much fewer whorls.