TURRITELLA.—PLATE VII.

liter acutè elevato-striatis, supernè excavatis, deinde bicostatis, costis tumidiusculis, interstitio concavo, anfractibus primis parum costatis; albida, aut fulvescente, striis spiralibus purpureo-fusco tinctis, anfractibus infra suturas purpureo-fusco maculatis et interdum lineatis, basi violacea.

THE SPOTTED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, concave and neatly striated at the base, whorls eighteen in number, spirally sharply elevately striated, excavated round the upper part, then two-ribbed, ribs rather swollen, with the interstice concave, the first whorls but slightly ribbed; whitish or fulvous, spiral striae stained with purple-brown, whorls spotted beneath the sutures and sometimes lineated with the same colour, base violet.
Hab. China Seas; Belcher.

Although this species approximates so closely to the T. bicingulata in general appearance, it will be found to differ on examination. In the earlier whorls of T. bicingulata the keels are very prominently developed even to the apex; in the species under consideration they are comparatively obsolete, the base of the shell is more concave, and is marked by numerous coloured linear striae, which are continued throughout the shell. There is none of the bold blotchy painting which characterizes the T. bicingulata, but the upper margin of the whorls is always distinguished by a row of irregular red-brown spots immediately beneath the sutures.

Species 34. (Mus. Hanley.)

TURRITELLA META. Turr. testá pyramidali-conicá, crassiusculá, anfractibus quindecim, plano-declinibus, basi tumidiusculis, spiraliter crebristriatis, anfractuum dimidio superiori eximiè subirregulariter lirato, liris sub-obsoletè granosis; fulvescente-albá, purpureo-rufo maculatá et variegatá, liris striisque purpureo-rufo alboque nitide articulatis.

THE CONICAL PILLAR TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally conical, rather thick, whorls fifteen in number, flatly slanting, rather swollen at the base, spirally closely striated, upper half of the whorls delicately and somewhat irregularly ridged, ridges somewhat obsoletely granose; fulvous-white, blotched and variegated with purple-red, ridges and striae neatly articulated with purple-red and white.
Hab. ——?

Unacquainted with the T. nebulosa of M. Kiener, I have been somewhat inclined to assign the present species to it, save that it is a stouter shell, the ridges appear on the upper half of the whorls only, and he makes no mention of their very delicate articulated painting.

Species 35. (Mus. Metcalfe.)

TURRITELLA CORNEA. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, interdum crassiusculá, ad basin obtusè angulatá, anfractibus quindecim, spiraliter tricarinatis et striatis, anfractús ultimi, et interdum penultimi, carinis evanidioribus, lirá parvá in interstitiis; ferrugineo-castaneá, apertura fauce purpureo tinctá.

THE HORNY TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately-turreted, sometimes rather thick, obtusely angled at the base, whorls fifteen in number, spirally three-keeled and striated, keels of the last whorl, and sometimes of the last but one, fainter, having a small ridge in the interstices; rusty-chestnut, interior of the aperture tinged with purple.

LAMARCK, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. ix. p. 255.
Turbo terebra, Linnaeus, (of Fauna Suecica, not of Syst. Nat.)
Turritella unguilina, Deshayes, (not Turbo unguilinus, Linn.)
Turritella Linnei, Deshayes.
Turritella communis, Risso.
Hab. Seas of Europe.

Described by Linnaeus in his 'Fauna Suecica' under the name T. terebra, which has been adopted by Montagu and other British authors, without considering that the name had already been appropriated in the 'Systema Naturae' to a foreign species of much larger dimensions. Lamarck described it under the name given above, but from a worn and very obscure specimen, and with so brief a description, and no information as to its locality, that until M. Kiener, who held the keys of Lamarck's collection, published the T. cornea, it was impossible correctly to identify the species. M. Deshayes not having obtained access either to Linnaeus's collection for the type of Turbo unguilinus, or to Lamarck's for that of Turritella cornea, assigned the species under consideration, agreeably with the views of Dr. Pulteney, to the former of these, which is Lamarck's T. fuscata; and did not observe it to be identical with the T. terebra of the 'Fauna Suecica,' which he proposes to call T. Linnei.

The figure to which Lamarck refers in the 'Encyclopédie Méthodique' in illustration of his T. cornea, is the Mediterranean form of the species, which is more elongated and has the sutures more excavated than that found on our own coast. The accompanying figure represents a specimen of the British state of the species dredged at Torbay by Mr. Metcalfe; and Mr. Hanley possesses a transparent white variety, with the keels more prominently developed, dredged off the Shetland Isles at a considerable depth by Mr. M'Andrew. Professor E. Forbes informs me, however, that this variety is not uncommon, and occurs in shallows as well as deeps.