TURRITELLA.—PLATE XI.

HOOKER'S TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, rather thin, whorls fifteen in number, concavely swollen in the middle, and conspicuously encircled throughout with two sharp remote keels, last and penultimate whorls finely elevately striated; transparent-white.
Hab. ——?

An extremely interesting species, collected during the Antarctic Expedition by Capt. Sir James Clark Ross, which I have the pleasure to name in honour of Dr. Joseph Hooker, the eminent naturalist of that productive voyage, and author of the 'Flora Antarctica.'

Species 62. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA SINUATA. Turr. testá pyramidalí-acuminatá, anfractibus quatuordecim, planulatis, spiraliter tenuè liratis et striatis, aperturá parciusculá, labro ampliter sinuato; fulvescente, zonulá albídá rufo-punctatá infra suturas.

THE SINUATED TURRITELLA. Shell pyramidally acuminated, whorls fourteen in number, flattened, spirally finely ridged and striated, aperture rather small, lip largely sinuated; light fulvous colour, having a red-dotted white zone beneath the sutures.
Hab. ——?

Readily distinguished by its dotted painting, and by the broad sinus of the outer lip.

Species 63. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA RUBESCENS. Turr. testá acuminato-turritá, anfractibus tredecim, spiraliter confertim liratis et striatis, primis paucis medio carinatis, cariná cito evanidá; rubescente.

THE LIGHT-RED TURRITELLA. Shell acuminately turreted, whorls thirteen in number, spirally closely ridged and striated, the first few whorls keeled in the middle, keel quickly vanishing; light-red.
Hab. Bay of Montija, West Columbia (in coarse sand at the depth of seven fathoms); Cuming.

All the whorls are somewhat prominent in the middle, occupied by the keel in the first few whorls.

Species 64. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA CINGULIFERA. Turr. testá gracili, turritá, anfractibus ad duodecim, supernè contractis, deinde rotundatis, spiraliter elevato-striatis; albá, infra suturas fuscescente.

THE ENCLOSED TURRITELLA. Shell slenderly turreted, whorls about twelve in number, contracted round the upper part, then rounded, spirally elevately striated; white, light brown beneath the sutures.
SOWERBY, Tankerville Cat. App. p. 14.
Turritella fragilis, Kiener.
Hab. Port Essington; Jukes.

The light brown colouring immediately beneath the sutures is a prominent character of this species.

Species 65. (Mus. Cuming.)

TURRITELLA INCISA. Turr. testá subpyramidalí-acuminatá, basi concaco-angulatá, anfractibus duodecim, plano-convexis, spiraliter undique creberrimè inciso-striatis; cinereo-fuscá.

THE ENGRAVED TURRITELLA. Shell somewhat pyramidally acuminated, concavely angled at the base, whorls twelve in number, flatly convex, spirally very closely marked with engraved striae; ash-brown.
Hab. Sidney (in deep water); Strange.

Closely but irregularly engraved throughout.