EGLISIA.

PLATE I.

Genus EGLISIA, Gray.

Testa elongato-turrita, anfractibus numerosis, suturis depressis, columellá plano-incrassatá, basi quadrato-angulatá, aperturá parvá, rotundatá, marginibus fere conjunctis, non reflexis.

Shell elongately turreted, whorls numerous, sutures depressed, columella flatly thickened, squarely angled at the base, aperture small, rounded, margins almost joined, not reflected.

The necessity for instituting a genus for the reception of the Turritella spirata of the Tankerville Catalogue, was first made known by Mr. Sowerby in his description of that remarkable shell. "Two circumstances," says the author of the Appendix, Tank. Cat. p.xiv., "are remarkable in this shell, the broad flat depression in the upper part of the volutions, and the straight edge of the outer lip. Aware that it is generically distinguished by this latter circumstance from Turritella, we should not have added it to this genus, had there been any more convenient place for it."

Mr. Gray proposed the name Eglisia, and I am able to confirm the value of the genus by the addition of two more equally characteristic species, one collected by Mr. Cuming at the Philippine Islands, another dredged by Sir Edward Belcher in the China Seas.

Species 1. (Mus. Cuming.)

EGLISIA SPIRATA. Egl. testá pyramidali-turritá, anfractibus ad duodecin, supernè peculiariter plano-depressis, ad suturas concavo-excavatis, spiraliter subobtusè liratis; albida, fulvescente-fusco obliquè inquinatá et variegatá.

THE SPIRAL EGLISIA. Shell pyramidally turreted, whorls about twelve in number, peculiarly flatly depressed round the upper part, concavely excavated at the sutures, spirally somewhat obtusely ridged; whitish, obliquely stained and variegated with fulvous brown.

Turritella spirata, Sowerby, Tankerville Catalogue, App. p. xiv.
Turbo suturalis, Gray (in Wood Index Test.)
Eglisia suturalis, Gray (in Brit. Mus.)
Turritella suturalis, Kiener.
Hab. Island of St. Thomas, West Indies; Sowerby.

I am not aware of any other specimens of this remarkable species, than those spoken of by Mr. Sowerby in the Tankerville Catalogue, as having been purchased in the old collection of Mr. Humphrey. Of these the one here figured is in the Cumingian collection, and another is in the British Museum.

Species 2. (Mus. Cuming.)

EGLISIA LANCEOLATA. Egl. testá lanceolato-turritá, anfractibus ad octodecin, rotundatis, subobscure octoliratis, interstitiis sub lente tenuissimè cancellatis, suturis profundè excavatis, aperturá parvá, rotundá; fulvescente-spadiceá.

THE LANCEOLATE EGLISIA. Shell lanceolately turreted, whorls about eighteen in number, rounded, rather obscurely eight-ridged, interstices, beneath the lens, very finely cancellated, sutures deeply excavated, aperture small, rounded; light fulvous bay.

Hab. Pasacao, Island of Luzon (in sandy mud at the depth of ten fathoms); Cuming.

An interesting species collected by Mr. Cuming at the above-named locality, of the same generic type as the preceding, the sutures having the same excavated structure, though in an inferior degree.

Species 3. (Mus. Belcher.)

EGLISIA TRICARINATA. Egl. testá acutè turritá, anfractibus ad octodecin, supernè contractis et declivibus, deinde tricarinatis, sub lente longitudinaliter creber-rimè et tenuissimè cancellato-striatis, aperturá parvá, rotundá; sordidè cinereo-fuscá.

THE THREE-KEELED EGLISIA. Shell sharply turreted, whorls about eighteen in number, contracted and slanting round the upper part, then three-keeled, beneath the lens very finely longitudinally cancellately striated, aperture small, round; dull ashy-brown.

ADAMS and REEVE, Moll. Voy. Samarang.
Hab. China Seas; Belcher.

The cancellated structure of this species is similar to that of the preceding.