EBURNA.

PLATE I.

Genus EBURNA, Lamarck.

Testa ovata vel ovato-conoidea, umbilicata, umbilico ampio, infra canaliculato, interdum impleto, spirae suturis nunc simplicibus, nunc profunde canaliculatis, apertura basi emarginata, plerumque supernè canaliculata, labro columellari incrassato, calloso, externo simplici. Operculum parvum, acuminatum.

Shell ovate or ovately conoid, umbilicated, umbilicus large, channelled beneath, sometimes filled up, sutures of the spire simple or very deeply channelled, columellar lip thickened, callous, outer lip simple. Operculum small, acuminated.

The name Eburna, signifying ivory, is not very appropriate for the present genus, inasmuch as it was founded on the polished E. glabrata of Lamarck, which proves to be an Ancillaria, almost entirely enveloped by the soft parts, whilst the species that remain are distinguished for having a dark thick epidermis. The animal, of which drawings have been published in the Mollusca of the Voyage of the Samarang and of Le Bonite, approaches so near to Buccinum, that M. Deshayes is disposed to return rather to the views of Bruguière and Linnaeus; it will, however, be readily acknowledged that there is a marked association of generic character in the objects under consideration. They are all largely umbilicated, the umbilicus being sometimes filled up, and are devoid of sculpture. The aperture is alike in all, and the colouring and pattern are peculiar, very similar throughout, yet varying in a manner sufficiently constant in each species to be regarded of considerable specific importance.

It is perhaps scarcely necessary to refer to M. Kiener's remarks that E. papillosa and Valentiana are varieties of E. spirata, and that E. ambulacrum is a variety of E. lutosa (figured as E. spirata var.). This is a grave mistake; the author is not, unfortunately, acquainted with the species. It will also be found on reference to Sp. 4, that the E. australis is not identical with Lamarck's Cancellaria spirata as generally supposed; whilst E. plumbea is referred to the genus Monoceros.

The Eburne are all inhabitants of the Eastern hemisphere.

Species 1. (Mus. Brit.)

EBURNA PAPILLARIS. Eburn. testá oblongo-conoideá, imperforatá, spirá elevatá, apice papillari, suturis simplicibus, anfractibus subrotundatis, supernè obtusè depressis, vix angulatis; albá, fusco undique punctatá.

The papillary Eburna. Shell oblong-conoid, imperforated, spire raised, papillary at the apex, sutures simple, whorls somewhat rounded, obtusely depressed at the upper part, scarcely angulated; white, dotted throughout with brown.

Sowerby, Tankerville Catalogue, App. p. xxii.
Hab. Cape of Good Hope.

I am only aware of four specimens of this very interesting species; one in the British Museum, one in the Cumingian collection, one in the collection of Mr. Gaskoin, and one in some continental cabinet.

Species 2. (Mus. Cuming.)

EBURNA LUTOSA. Eburn. testá ovatá, vix umbilicatá, spirá elevatá, acutá, anfractibus convexis, laevibus, supernè obtusè depressis, vix angulatis; albá, pallide spadiceo promiscue undulato-nebulatá.

The muddy Eburna. Shell ovate, scarcely umbilicated, spire raised, sharp, whorls convex, smooth, obtusely depressed above, scarcely angulated; white, promiscuously clouded in a waved manner with light fawn colour.

Lamarck, Anim. sans vert. (Deshayes' edit.) vol. x. p. 235.
Eburna Pacifica, Swainson.
Hab. China.

The colouring obtains a less defined pattern in this species than in any other, and the whorls are more obtusely depressly rounded at the upper part.

Species 3. (Mus. Cuming.)

EBURNA JAPONICA. Eburn. testá ovato-conoideá, umbilicatá, apice subpapillari, suturis simplicibus, anfractibus convexis, laevibus, supernè vix depressis; albidá, maculis semilunaribus vel oblongis fulvo-spadiceis, confertis, biseriatim cinctá, interstitiis maculis parvis numerosis, diagonaliter dispositis, notatis.

The Japan Eburna. Shell ovately conoid, umbilicated, somewhat papillary at the apex, sutures simple, whorls convex, smooth, very slightly depressed at the upper part; whitish, encircled with two rows of close-set semilunar or oblong fulvous bay spots, the interstices between which are marked with numerous small spots ranging diagonally.